---
title: 771. Jewels and Stones (easy)                 
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
You're given strings J representing the types of stones that are jewels, and S representing the stones you have.  Each character in S is a type of stone you have.  You want to know how many of the stones you have are also jewels.      
The letters in J are guaranteed distinct, and all characters in J and S are letters. Letters are case sensitive, so "a" is considered a different type of stone from "A".     

Example 1:    
Input: J = "aA", S = "aAAbbbb"   
Output: 3   
Example 2:    
Input: J = "z", S = "ZZ"   
Output: 0    

Note:    
S and J will consist of letters and have length at most 50.    
The characters in J are distinct.     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.            
1. My initial idea is creating a HashSet for characters of string J. Then check for every character of string S, if hashset contains character, add 1 on result.    
2. In discussion, there is another method that uses regular exception. i.e. [^ a] means this pattern matches any character except for a.   


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashSet   

    class Solution {
     public int numJewelsInStones(String J, String S) {
        //prepare a int for result
        int result = 0;
        
        //check extreme condition
        if(J.length() == 0 || S.length() == 0){
            return result;
        }
        
        //Create a HashSet for J
        char[] charJ = J.toCharArray();
        HashSet<Character> set = new HashSet<> ();
        for(int i = 0; i < J.length(); i++){
            set.add(charJ[i]);
        }
        
        //check for string s
        char[] charS = S.toCharArray();
        for(int i = 0; i < S.length(); i++){
            if(set.contains(charS[i])){
                result += 1;
            }
        }
        
        return result;
     }
    }

Regular exeption    

       public int numJewelsInStones(String J, String S) {
              return S.replaceAll("[^" + J + "]", "").length(); //get rid of all characters not shown in J, keep any character shown in J.    
       }



### Code in Python.   
[i in j for i in s] means, for every element of S, check if its in J. So for example if you run with J = "aA" , S = "aAAbbbb", i in j, return True or False. For this example output will be [True, True, True, False, False, False, False]. If you take sum of this True=1, False =0, this will return 3.     
       
    class Solution(object):
    def numJewelsInStones(self, J, S):
        """
        :type J: str
        :type S: str
        :rtype: int
        """
        return sum([i in J for i in S])






