---
title: 966. Vowel Spellchecker (medium)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,String]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.       

Given a wordlist, we want to implement a spellchecker that converts a query word into a correct word.     
For a given query word, the spell checker handles two categories of spelling mistakes:      

Capitalization: If the query matches a word in the wordlist (case-insensitive), then the query word is returned with the same case as the case in the wordlist.    
Example: wordlist = ["yellow"], query = "YellOw": correct = "yellow"    
Example: wordlist = ["Yellow"], query = "yellow": correct = "Yellow"    
Example: wordlist = ["yellow"], query = "yellow": correct = "yellow"     

Vowel Errors: If after replacing the vowels ('a', 'e', 'i', 'o', 'u') of the query word with any vowel individually, it matches a word in the wordlist (case-insensitive), then the query word is returned with the same case as the match in the wordlist.     
Example: wordlist = ["YellOw"], query = "yollow": correct = "YellOw"   
Example: wordlist = ["YellOw"], query = "yeellow": correct = "" (no match)     
Example: wordlist = ["YellOw"], query = "yllw": correct = "" (no match)     

In addition, the spell checker operates under the following precedence rules:     
When the query exactly matches a word in the wordlist (case-sensitive), you should return the same word back.    
When the query matches a word up to capitlization, you should return the first such match in the wordlist.   
When the query matches a word up to vowel errors, you should return the first such match in the wordlist.    
If the query has no matches in the wordlist, you should return the empty string.     
Given some queries, return a list of words answer, where answer[i] is the correct word for query = queries[i].     

Example 1:      
Input: wordlist = ["KiTe","kite","hare","Hare"], queries = ["kite","Kite","KiTe","Hare","HARE","Hear","hear","keti","keet","keto"]    
Output: ["kite","KiTe","KiTe","Hare","hare","","","KiTe","","KiTe"]      

Note:      
1 <= wordlist.length <= 5000   
1 <= queries.length <= 5000   
1 <= wordlist[i].length <= 7   
1 <= queries[i].length <= 7     
All strings in wordlist and queries consist only of english letters.      



----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        

I. HashMap and HashSet     
We analyze the 3 cases that the algorithm needs to consider: when the query is an exact match, when the query is a match up to capitalization, and when the query is a match up to vowel errors.      
In all 3 cases, we can use a hash table to query the answer.         
For the first case (exact match), we hold a set of words to efficiently test whether our query is in the set.    
For the second case (capitalization), we hold a hash table that converts the word from its lowercase version to the original word (with correct capitalization).    
For the third case (vowel replacement), we hold a hash table that converts the word from its lowercase version with the vowels masked out, to the original word.    
The rest of the algorithm is careful planning and reading the problem carefully.     






----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashTable and HashSet      

    class Solution {
     Set<String> set;  //exact words
     HashMap<String, String> map1;  //capitalization
     HashMap<String, String> map2;  //vowal errors
    
     public String[] spellchecker(String[] wordlist, String[] queries) {
        set = new HashSet<> ();
        map1 = new HashMap<> ();
        map2 = new HashMap<> ();
        
        //add suitable word from wordList in each
        for(String word : wordlist){
            //add exact word into set
            set.add(word);
            
            //add lowercase
            String wordLow = word.toLowerCase();
            map1.putIfAbsent(wordLow, word);
            
            //add devoweled word
            String wordLowDV = devowel(wordLow);
            map2.putIfAbsent(wordLowDV, word);
        }
        
        String[] ans = new String[queries.length];
        
        int t = 0;
        for(String query : queries){
            ans[t++] = solve(query);
        }
        
        return ans;
        
     }
    
     public String devowel(String word){
        StringBuilder SB = new StringBuilder();
        for(char c : word.toCharArray()){
            SB.append(isVowel(c) ? '*' : c);
        }
        return SB.toString();
     }
    
     public boolean isVowel(char c){
        return (c == 'a' || c == 'e' || c == 'i' || c == 'o' || c == 'u'); //'' for char; "" for string
     }
    
     //solve, check for which word for which set/map
     public String solve(String query){
        if(set.contains(query)){
            return query;
        }
        
        String queryL = query.toLowerCase();
        if(map1.containsKey(queryL)){
            return map1.get(queryL);
        }
        
        String queryLV = devowel(queryL);
        if(map2.containsKey(queryLV)){
            return map2.get(queryLV);
        }
        
        return "";
     }
        
    }




### Code in Python.   
Same thoughts    

    class Solution(object):
      def spellchecker(self, wordlist, queries):
        def devowel(word):
            return "".join('*' if c in 'aeiou' else c
                           for c in word)

        words_perfect = set(wordlist)
        words_cap = {}
        words_vow = {}

        for word in wordlist:
            wordlow = word.lower()
            words_cap.setdefault(wordlow, word)
            words_vow.setdefault(devowel(wordlow), word)

        def solve(query):
            if query in words_perfect:
                return query

            queryL = query.lower()
            if queryL in words_cap:
                return words_cap[queryL]

            queryLV = devowel(queryL)
            if queryLV in words_vow:
                return words_vow[queryLV]
            return ""

        return map(solve, queries)



