---
title: 1002. Find Common Characters (easy)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Array]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given an array A of strings made only from lowercase letters, return a list of all characters that show up in all strings within the list (including duplicates).  For example, if a character occurs 3 times in all strings but not 4 times, you need to include that character three times in the final answer.     
You may return the answer in any order.     

Example 1:    
Input: ["bella","label","roller"]   
Output: ["e","l","l"]   
Example 2:   
Input: ["cool","lock","cook"]   
Output: ["c","o"]    

Note:    
1 <= A.length <= 100   
1 <= A[i].length <= 100   
A[i][j] is a lowercase letter     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
My initial idea is using HashMap to collect characters and its frequence one string by one string. Compare the frequence and keep the least number. So thoughts are having one HashMap for all lower letters from a to z and let the frequence be Integer.MAX_VALUE. Then compare with each string and keep the least.    
And in discussion, people are using int[] instead of HashMap, it seems simpler.      



----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
int[] to cpmpare one by one.   

    class Solution {
     public List<String> commonChars(String[] A) {
        //prepare a list for result
        List<String> list = new ArrayList<> ();
        
        //check for extreme condition
        if(A.length == 1){  //every character is common
            for(char a : A[0].toCharArray()){
                list.add("" + a);
            }
            
            return list;
        }
        
        //prepare an int[] for initialize for a-z 26 letters, size 26
        //fill in the array with MAX VALUE in integer
        int[] init = new int[26];
        Arrays.fill(init, Integer.MAX_VALUE);
        
        //check for every element in every string, the frequence
        for(String str : A){
            //create an empty array with 0 every time
            int[] cnt = new int[26];
            for(int i = 0; i < str.length(); i++){
                cnt[str.charAt(i) - 'a']++; //'a' - 'a' = 0
            }
            for(int i = 0; i < 26; i++){
                init[i] = Math.min(init[i], cnt[i]);
            }
            
        }
        
        //check for every char, add until it is 0
        for (char c = 'a'; c <= 'z'; ++c) {
            while (init[c - 'a']-- > 0) { list.add("" + c); } //--init[c - 'a'] > 0, bigger than 0
        }
        return list;
        
        
     }
    }


### Code in Python.   

    def commonChars(self, A):
        res = collections.Counter(A[0]) # count for character and # of appearance of each character   
        for a in A:
            res &= collections.Counter(a) # &=, get the elements exist in both  
        return list(res.elements())

