---
title: 387. First Unique Character in a String (easy)                
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,String]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given a string, find the first non-repeating character in it and return it's index. If it doesn't exist, return -1.     
Examples:   
s = "leetcode"   
return 0.    
s = "loveleetcode",   
return 2.   
Note: You may assume the string contain only lowercase letters.    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
Initially, I thought we can create a HashMap to store each element. In the loop, we add element when we first meet, remove element when we second meet. But there is a problem if there is a element appear third or forth or more times.    
Then after I checked the solution in official website, I found there is a map.getOrDefault(value, defaultValue) method which can use the key value when Map collection contains key, otherwise use default value which we will use 0. Then in the second loop, we need to check whether the value of key element is only 1, if so, return its index.   
<b> Note: </b> The working condition for default value of getOrDefault() method is that <b> the result of containsKey is false </b> instead of the value of get method is null.      








----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
Code in Java.     
1. HashMap get the appear times of elements.   

       class Solution {
       public int firstUniqChar(String s) {
        if(s.length() < 1){
            return -1;
        }
        else if (s.length() == 1){
            return 0;
        }
        
        HashMap<Character, Integer> HM = new HashMap<Character, Integer> ();
        
        // add element in HashMap
        for(int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++){
            HM.put(s.charAt(i), HM.getOrDefault(s.charAt(i), 0) + 1); //map.getOrDefault
        }
        
        // find the desired element
        for(int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++){
            if(HM.get(s.charAt(i)) == 1){
                return i;
            }
        }
        
        return -1;
        
    }
}


Code in Python.   



