---
title: 110. Balanced Binary Tree (Easy)                   
author: zhou      
tags: [Tree, Depth-first Search]            
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    

Given a binary tree, determine if it is height-balanced.     
For this problem, a height-balanced binary tree is defined as:     
a binary tree in which the depth of the two subtrees of every node never differ by more than 1.       

Example 1:     
Given the following tree [3,9,20,null,null,15,7]:      
    3   
   / \   
  9  20    
    /  \    
   15   7      
   
Return true.        

Example 2:     
Given the following tree [1,2,2,3,3,null,null,4,4]:     

       1    
      / \   
     2   2   
    / \   
   3   3   
  / \   
 4   4    
 
Return false.     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        

Recursion.     
Java solution based on height, check left and right node in every recursion to avoid further useless search     

I was also confused by the return -1.    
Please understand that when you return something in recursion it goes to the calling function just above the stack.     
Take the example [1,2,2,3,null,null,3,4,null,null,4], this is a case where the tree is unbalanced at 2 but balanced at root that is 1.
Now lets us consider the case where we do NOT write if (lH==-1 || rH==-1) return -1; then only the call that was one step above the stack receives -1 but the thing is once we find the difference is -1, there is no point in further calculations (cause the tree will be unbalanced).     
And to propagate this we have to return -1 everytime without changing the value until the first call on the stack which is in the isBalanced() function.      

https://leetcode.com/problems/balanced-binary-tree/discuss/35686/Java-solution-based-on-height-check-left-and-right-node-in-every-recursion-to-avoid-further-useless-search    



----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Recursion      

    class Solution {
     public boolean isBalanced(TreeNode root) {
        //no need, it will be checked in first condition of helper()
        //if(root == null){
        //    return true;
        //}
        
        return helper(root) != -1;
        
     }
    
     public int helper(TreeNode node){
        if(node == null){
            return 0;
        }
        
        int leftt = helper(node.left);
        if(leftt == -1){
            return -1;
        }
        
        int rightt = helper(node.right);
        if(rightt == -1){
            return -1;
        }
        
        if(Math.abs(rightt - leftt) > 1 ){
            return -1;
        }
        
        return Math.max(leftt, rightt) + 1;
        
     }
    
    }

More clear version    

    class Solution {
     public boolean isBalanced(TreeNode root) {
        int result = getHeight(root);
        
        if(result != -1){
            return true;
        }
        else{
            return false;
        }
        
     }
    
     public int getHeight(TreeNode node){
        if(node == null){
            return 0;
        }
        
        int left = getHeight(node.left);
        int right = getHeight(node.right);
        
        //check for original subtree balanced or not
        //or the difference between height is too big
        if(left == -1 || right == -1){
            return -1;
        }
        else if(Math.abs(left - right) > 1){
            return -1;
        }
        
        //if it is balanced,return current height   
        return Math.max(left, right) + 1;
     }
    
    }


### Code in Python.   
Recursive Rules:   
索取：Node的左孩子是不是全部是Balanced，Node的右孩子是不是全部是Balanced的，   
返回：如果都是Balanced的，返回True，不然返回False     

    class Solution(object):
    def isBalanced(self, root):
        self.isBalanced = True
        self.getHeight(root)
        return self.isBalanced
        
    
    def getHeight(self, root):
        if not root: return 0
        left = self.getHeight(root.left)
        right = self.getHeight(root.right)
        if abs(left - right) > 1: 
            self.isBalanced = False
        return max(left, right) + 1

最后Leetcode上有一种-1的方法，其实就是上面这种方法的一种延伸。如果左右两边出现了高度差高于1的情况，直接返回-1，这个-1怎么来的？因为高度不可能为负数，-1其实就是一种True/False的表达。     

    class Solution(object):
    def isBalanced(self, root):
        height = self.get_height(root)
        return height != -1

        
    def get_height(self, root):
        if not root: return 0
        left = self.get_height(root.left)
        right = self.get_height(root.right)
        if left == -1 or right == -1 : return -1          
        if abs(left - right) > 1:  return -1
        return max(left, right) + 1

