---
title: 692. Top K Frequent Words (medium) Difference between 347. Top K Frequent Elements, here, it is about String not Integer                   
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Trie,Heap]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given a non-empty list of words, return the k most frequent elements.      
Your answer should be sorted by frequency from highest to lowest. If two words have the same frequency, then the word with the lower alphabetical order comes first.     

Example 1:    
Input: ["i", "love", "leetcode", "i", "love", "coding"], k = 2    
Output: ["i", "love"]     
Explanation: "i" and "love" are the two most frequent words. Note that "i" comes before "love" due to a lower alphabetical order.      

Example 2:     
Input: ["the", "day", "is", "sunny", "the", "the", "the", "sunny", "is", "is"], k = 4    
Output: ["the", "is", "sunny", "day"]    
Explanation: "the", "is", "sunny" and "day" are the four most frequent words, with the number of occurrence being 4, 3, 2 and 1 respectively.      

Note:     
You may assume k is always valid, 1 ≤ k ≤ number of unique elements.    
Input words contain only lowercase letters.     

Follow up:    
Try to solve it in O(n log k) time and O(n) extra space.     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
Initial thought is that using HashMap<String, Integer> to record word and its frequence; then from big to small for frequence to sort the ans list from map; at the end, return sublist(0, k) for ans list.     
Second idea is that use HashMap and heap. Store elements with bigger frequence (less than k) in heap. At the end, poll the elements of heap into result list, reverse the list.        


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashMap<String, Integer> and sort for ans list     
Time Complexity: O(NlogN), where N is the length of words. We count the frequency of each word in O(N) time, then we sort the given words in O(NlogN) time.          
Space Complexity: O(N), the space used to store our ans list.       

    public List<String> topKFrequent(String[] words, int k) {
        //Prepare for result
        List<String> res = new ArrayList<> ();
        
        //check for extreme condition
        if(words == null || words.length == 0){
            return res;
        }
        
        //HashMap<String, frequence>
        HashMap<String, Integer> map = new HashMap<> ();
        for(String word : words){
            map.put(word, map.getOrDefault(word, 0) + 1);
        }
        
        List<String> ans = new ArrayList(map.keySet());
        
        Collections.sort(ans, (a, b) -> map.get(a).equals(map.get(b)) ? a.compareTo(b) : map.get(b) - map.get(a) );
        //map.get(a) - map.get(b): 从小往大
        //map.get(b) - map.get(a), reverse: 从大往小
        
        return ans.subList(0, k);
        
    }

Heap     
Time Complexity: O(Nlogk), where N is the length of words. We count the frequency of each word in O(N) time, then we add NN words to the heap, each in O(logk) time. Finally, we pop from the heap up to k times. As k ≤ N, this is O(Nlogk) in total.     
In Python, we improve this to O(N+klogN): our heapq.heapify operation and counting operations are O(N), and each of k heapq.heappop operations are O(logN).      
Space Complexity: O(N), the space used to store our count.       

    class Solution {
      public List<String> topKFrequent(String[] words, int k) {
        Map<String, Integer> count = new HashMap();
        for (String word: words) {
            count.put(word, count.getOrDefault(word, 0) + 1);
        }
        PriorityQueue<String> heap = new PriorityQueue<String>(
                (w1, w2) -> count.get(w1).equals(count.get(w2)) ?
                w2.compareTo(w1) : count.get(w1) - count.get(w2) );
                //正序, give priority to smaller value, smaller value on top, bigger value in bottom    

        for (String word: count.keySet()) {
            heap.offer(word);
            if (heap.size() > k) heap.poll();
        }

        List<String> ans = new ArrayList();
        while (!heap.isEmpty()) ans.add(heap.poll());
        Collections.reverse(ans);
        return ans;
      }
    }



### Code in Python.   
First idea.    

    class Solution(object):
      def topKFrequent(self, words, k):
          count = collections.Counter(words)
          candidates = count.keys()
          candidates.sort(key = lambda w: (-count[w], w))
          return candidates[:k]

Second idea with heap.     

    class Solution(object):
      def topKFrequent(self, words, k):
        count = collections.Counter(words)
        heap = [(-freq, word) for word, freq in count.items()]
        heapq.heapify(heap)
        return [heapq.heappop(heap)[1] for _ in xrange(k)]

