---
title: 2. Add Two Numbers (medium)     
---
 
   
Linked List, Math   

## Catalog
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
You are given two non-empty linked lists representing two non-negative integers. The digits are stored in reverse order and each of their nodes contain a single digit. Add the two numbers and return it as a linked list. You may assume the two numbers do not contain any leading zero, except the number 0 itself.     
Example:    
Input: (2 -> 4 -> 3) + (5 -> 6 -> 4)   
Output: 7 -> 0 -> 8   
Explanation: 342 + 465 = 807.    

----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and see others' solving methods.    
Initialie a new empty list, dummyHead; create three listnode for p = l1, 1 = l2, current node to dummyHead of the returning list; initialize int carry to 0; in loop, check p or q is valid and each value of p and q, int sum = x+y+carry; and last, in case, the result of adding last two numbers will have carry, we should add one more listnode at last in curr.next.     

----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Code in Java.    

    class Solution {
    public ListNode addTwoNumbers(ListNode l1, ListNode l2) {
        ListNode dummyNode = new ListNode(0);
        ListNode p = l1, q = l2, curr = dummyNode;
        
        int carry = 0;
        
        while(p != null || q != null){
            int x = (p != null) ? p.val:0;
            int y = (q != null) ? q.val:0;
            int sum = x + y + carry;
            carry = sum/10;
            curr.next = new ListNode(sum%10);
            curr = curr.next;
            if(p != null) p = p.next;
            if(q != null) q = q.next;
        }
        
        if(carry>0){
            curr.next = new ListNode(carry);
        }
        
        return dummyNode.next;
        
     }
    }

 

{{ page.date|date_to_string }}
