---
title: 447. Number of Boomerangs (easy)                
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given n points in the plane that are all pairwise distinct, a "boomerang" is a tuple of points (i, j, k) such that the distance between i and j equals the distance between i and k (the order of the tuple matters).     
Find the number of boomerangs. You may assume that n will be at most 500 and coordinates of points are all in the range [-10000, 10000] (inclusive).     

Example:   
Input:   
[[0,0],[1,0],[2,0]]    
Output:   
2    
Explanation:    
The two boomerangs are [[1,0],[0,0],[2,0]] and [[1,0],[2,0],[0,0]]     
My Explanation:    
In 1st answer, [1,0] is i, [0,0] is j, [2,0] is k, therefore, [1,0] to [0,0] is 1, [1,0] to [2,0] is 1, too.      
In 2nd answer, [1,0] is i, [2,0] os j, [0,0] is k.     
Difficult part here is there can be at most 500 points in the list, so we have to compare all of them.    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
One difficult part here is two-dimensional array. First [] is for one-dimensional array, second [] is for element inside one-dimensional array.      
1. Initialize an int for the result     
2. Create a HashMap     
3. Loop for two integer standing for index of the first [], get the distance between two points and then record the distance and the frequence of the distanc; and check the value of map, add to result.     
4. Create a function for calculating the distance for two points.      


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     

    class Solution {
    public int numberOfBoomerangs(int[][] points) {
        //Initialize a int for result
        int result = 0;
        
        //Create a HashMap for distance and its frequence
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<> ();
        
        //Two int for two points
        for(int i = 0; i < points.length; i++){
            for(int j = 0; j < points.length; j++){
                //get rid of same points
                if(i == j){
                    continue;
                }
                
                //get distance between two points
                int d = getDistance(points[i], points[j]);
                map.put(d, map.getOrDefault(d, 0)+1);
            }
            
            for(int val : map.values()){
                result += val*(val-1);
            }
            
            //clear map for next i
            map.clear();
            
        }
        
        return result;
        
    }
    
    private int getDistance(int[] a, int[] b){
        int dx = a[0] - b[0];
        int dy = a[1] - b[1];
        
        //distance between two points
        return (dx*dx + dy*dy);
    }
    
   }


### Code in Python.   



