---
title: 575. Distribute Candies (easy)                 
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given an integer array with even length, where different numbers in this array represent different kinds of candies. Each number means one candy of the corresponding kind. You need to distribute these candies equally in number to brother and sister. Return the maximum number of kinds of candies the sister could gain.    
Example 1:   
Input: candies = [1,1,2,2,3,3]   
Output: 3   
Explanation:   
There are three different kinds of candies (1, 2 and 3), and two candies for each kind.   
Optimal distribution: The sister has candies [1,2,3] and the brother has candies [1,2,3], too.    
The sister has three different kinds of candies.    
Example 2:    
Input: candies = [1,1,2,3]   
Output: 2    
Explanation: For example, the sister has candies [2,3] and the brother has candies [1,1].    
The sister has two different kinds of candies, the brother has only one kind of candies.  

Note:   
The length of the given array is in range [2, 10,000], and will be even.   
The number in given array is in range [-100,000, 100,000].    



----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
1. Initialize an int for result    
2. Check the extreme situation    
3. Create a hashset for sister, if inside the loop of hashset, there is no candy, add this kind of candy inside the hashset and add 1 to result int. Also in the loop, check result and half of length of candies, if same, return half directly.    
Or we can use bucket sort. Very quick but costs a lot on space complexity.    


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
My own code with HashSet.    

    class Solution {
    public int distributeCandies(int[] candies) {
        //Initialize an int for result
        int result = 0;   
        
        //Check extreme situation   
        if(candies.length == 0){
            return 0;
        }
        
        int half = candies.length / 2;
        
        //Add element into HashSet for sister
        HashSet<Integer> sister = new HashSet<> ();
        for(int i = 0; i < candies.length; i++){
            if(!sister.contains(candies[i])){
                sister.add(candies[i]);
                result++;
            }
            
            if(result == half){
                return half;
            }
        }
        
        return result;
        
        
     }  
    }

Or bucket sort, we can create a bunch of buckets to check whether it is first time appear.    

        public int distributeCandies(int[] candies) {
          int[] b = new int[200001];
          int nonEmptyBucketNo = 0;
          for (int i : candies) if (b[i + 100000]++ == 0) nonEmptyBucketNo++;
          return nonEmptyBucketNo 


### Code in Python.   
Python is sooooo cconvenient, use set() to record elements which are not duplicates.    

       def distributeCandies(self, candies):
         return min(len(candies) / 2, len(set(candies)))


