---
title: 508. Most Frequent Subtree Sum (medium)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Tree]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given the root of a tree, you are asked to find the most frequent subtree sum. The subtree sum of a node is defined as the sum of all the node values formed by the subtree rooted at that node (including the node itself). So what is the most frequent subtree sum value? If there is a tie, return all the values with the highest frequency in any order.      

Examples 1    
Input:     

  5      
 /  \     
2   -3      
return [2, -3, 4], since all the values happen only once, return all of them in any order.        

Examples 2    
Input:    

  5    
 /  \     
2   -5     
return [2], since 2 happens twice, however -5 only occur once.     
Note: You may assume the sum of values in any subtree is in the range of 32-bit signed integer.     



----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
"这道题给了我们一个二叉树，让我们求出现频率最高的子树之和，求树的结点和并不是很难，就是遍历所有结点累加起来即可。那么这道题的暴力解法就是遍历每个结点，对于每个结点都看作子树的根结点，然后再遍历子树所有结点求和，这样也许可以通过OJ，但是绝对不是最好的方法。"           

My initial idea is creating a HashMap to record each sum and its frequence; use recursive method to find the value of root, root.left, root.right; Then check for max frequence to add in list.    






----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Recursive method and HashMap     

       /**
        * Definition for a binary tree node.
       * public class TreeNode {
       *     int val;
       *     TreeNode left;
       *     TreeNode right;
       *     TreeNode(int x) { val = x; }
       * }
       */
       
    class Solution {
     //Creare a HashMap<Integer, Integer> for each sum and its frequence
     HashMap<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<Integer, Integer> ();
     int maxFreq = 0;
    
     public int[] findFrequentTreeSum(TreeNode root) {
        //int[] is fixed in size and cannot add/delete elements
        //no need to prepare for result
        
        //check for extreme condition   
        if(root == null){
            return new int[0];
        }
        
        //use function dfs to finish the map and get the current sum
        dfs(root);
        
        //Create a list for storing
        List<Integer> res = new ArrayList<> ();
        
        for(int key : map.keySet()){
            if(map.get(key) == maxFreq){
                res.add(key);
            }
        }
        
        return res.stream().mapToInt(i -> i).toArray();
        
     }
    
     public int dfs(TreeNode node){
        if(node == null){
            return 0;
        }
        
        int sum = node.val + dfs(node.left) + dfs(node.right);
        map.put(sum, map.getOrDefault(sum, 0) + 1);
        maxFreq = Math.max(maxFreq, map.get(sum));
        return sum;
     }  
    
    }




### Code in Python.   




