---
title: 202. Happy Number (easy)        
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable, Math]        
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Write an algorithm to determine if a number is "happy".   
A happy number is a number defined by the following process: Starting with any positive integer, replace the number by the sum of the squares of its digits, and repeat the process until the number equals 1 (where it will stay), or it loops endlessly in a cycle which does not include 1. Those numbers for which this process ends in 1 are happy numbers.    
Example:    
Input: 19   
Output: true   
Explanation:    
1^2 + 9^2 = 82   
8^2 + 2^2 = 68   
6^2 + 8^2 = 100   
1^2 + 0^2 + 0^2 = 1     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
First, I try to find when the loop will never ends and I find the property that if it never ends, it will become 4 at some time, then we can use this property to check.   
Second, we can use hashset to store all final elements in a loop. Once we find same element, we can jump out of the loop and check whether there is 1 inside the loop. if there exists, this is a happy number; otherwise, it is not. I recorded my solution.   
Third, after I checked discussion, I found one faster way. There is no need to calculate the sum every time. As we all know, each digit's range is [0,9], the range of Integer is [0,2^31-1],that is [0,10] in number of digits, which means the square sum of each digit would always be in range[0 , 9 * 9 * 10) or [0 , 810).

To speed up our processing,we can pre-calculate the happy numbers in range[0. 810). 

Use BitSet. Did not understand quite well for the bitset part. https://leetcode.com/problems/happy-number/discuss/57160/1ms-java-solution    

----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
Code in Java.     

       class Solution {
              public boolean isHappy(int n) {
                     HashSet<Integer> set = new HashSet<Integer>();
                     set.add(n); //add original int in set
        
                     while(n != 1){
                     // record new int
                     int result = 0;
                     // record every digit of n
                     while (n != 0){
                            result += Math.pow(n%10, 2);
                            n /= 10; 
                     }
            
                     // once in the set, we meet the same element but still doesn't see 1
                     if(set.contains(result)){
                            return false;   
                     }
            
                     set.add(result);
                     n = result;
            
                     }
                     return true;
              }
             }




