---
title: 203. Remove Linked List Elements (easy)                   
author: zhou      
tags: [Linked List]            
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    

Remove all elements from a linked list of integers that have value val.      

Example:     
Input:  1->2->6->3->4->5->6, val = 6    
Output: 1->2->3->4->5     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        

//Using dummy head: dummy "curr" will point to the last node while "head" pointing the first one.       

I. Iterative solution    
First, we shift a head of a list while its' value equals to val. Then, we iterate through the nodes of the list checking if the next node's value equals to val and removing it if needed.     

II. Recursive solution    

III. dummy node.    


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Iterative solution     

    public ListNode removeElements(ListNode head, int val) {
        //First, we shift a head of a list while its' value equals to val.
        while(head != null && head.val == val){  //pass the duplicates at the begin of the list  
            head = head.next;
        }
        
        ListNode curr = head;
        
        //Then, we iterate through the nodes of the list checking 
        //if the next node's value equals to val and removing it if needed.
        while(curr != null && curr.next != null){
            if(curr.next.val == val){
                curr.next = curr.next.next;
            }
            else{
                curr = curr.next;
            }
        }
        
        return head;
        
    }

Recursion    

    public ListNode removeElements(ListNode head, int val) {
        if(head == null){
            return null;
        }
        
        head.next = removeElements(head.next, val);
        
        return head.val == val ? head.next : head;
        
    }

Dummy node    

    public ListNode removeElements(ListNode head, int val) {
       ListNode dummy = new ListNode(0);
       dummy.next = head;
       ListNode cur = dummy;
    
       while(cur.next != null) {
         if(cur.next.val == val) {
            cur.next = cur.next.next;
         }
         else
            cur = cur.next;
       }
       return dummy.next;
       //为什么返回的是dummy.next 而不是head 呢？？？
       
    }



### Code in Python.   
First we remove all (if any) target nodes from the beginning (we do it because the removing logic is slightly different from when the node is not in the head). After that we just loop over all nodes, if the next one is one that should be removed, just get it out of the list by moving the next pointer to the next-next node. Otherwise just move along the list.      

    class Solution(object):
    def removeElements(self, head, val):
        while head is not None and head.val == val:
            head = head.next
        current = head
        while current is not None:
            if current.next is not None and current.next.val == val:
                current.next = current.next.next
            else:
                current = current.next
        return head



