---
title: 609. Find Duplicate File in System (medium) Follow-up questions are valuable!                     
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,String]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given a list of directory info including directory path, and all the files with contents in this directory, you need to find out all the groups of duplicate files in the file system in terms of their paths.     
A group of duplicate files consists of at least two files that have exactly the same content.    
A single directory info string in the input list has the following format:      
"root/d1/d2/.../dm f1.txt(f1_content) f2.txt(f2_content) ... fn.txt(fn_content)"      
It means there are n files (f1.txt, f2.txt ... fn.txt with content f1_content, f2_content ... fn_content, respectively) in directory root/d1/d2/.../dm. Note that n >= 1 and m >= 0. If m = 0, it means the directory is just the root directory.       
The output is a list of group of duplicate file paths. For each group, it contains all the file paths of the files that have the same content. A file path is a string that has the following format:        
"directory_path/file_name.txt"        

Example 1:      
Input:       
["root/a 1.txt(abcd) 2.txt(efgh)", "root/c 3.txt(abcd)", "root/c/d 4.txt(efgh)", "root 4.txt(efgh)"]    
Output:      
[["root/a/2.txt","root/c/d/4.txt","root/4.txt"],["root/a/1.txt","root/c/3.txt"]]      

Note:     
No order is required for the final output.    
You may assume the directory name, file name and file content only has letters and digits, and the length of file content is in the range of [1,50].    
The number of files given is in the range of [1,20000].   
You may assume no files or directories share the same name in the same directory.    
You may assume each given directory info represents a unique directory. Directory path and file info are separated by a single blank space.     
 
Follow-up beyond contest:     
Imagine you are given a real file system, how will you search files? DFS or BFS?   
If the file content is very large (GB level), how will you modify your solution?   
If you can only read the file by 1kb each time, how will you modify your solution?    
What is the time complexity of your modified solution? What is the most time-consuming part and memory consuming part of it? How to optimize?    
How to make sure the duplicated files you find are not false positive?      



----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
HashMap<String for contents, list for path>. In this approach, firstly we obtain the directory paths, the file names and their contents separately by appropriately splitting each string in the given pathspaths list. In order to find the files with duplicate contents, we make use of a HashMap mapmap, which stores the data in the form (contents, list\_of\_file\_paths\_with\_this\_content). Thus, for every file's contents, we check if the same content already exist in the hashmap. If so, we add the current file's path to the list of files corresponding to the current contents. Otherwise, we create a new entry in the mapmap, with the current contents as the key and the value being a list with only one entry(the current file's path).       
At the end, we find out the contents corresponding to which atleast two file paths exist. We obtain the resultant list resres, which is a list of lists containing these file paths corresponding to the same contents.       

<b> Thoughts on follow up questions </b>     
Question-1:      
Imagine you are given a real file system, how will you search files? DFS or BFS?     
Answer:    
core idea: DFS     
Reason: if depth of directory is not too deeper, which is suitable to use DFS, comparing with BFS.       

Question-2:    
If the file content is very large (GB level), how will you modify your solution?     
Answer:     
core idea: make use of meta data, like file size before really reading large content.      
Two steps:     
1. DFS to map each size to a set of paths that have that size: Map<Integer, Set of same size>     
2. For each size, if there are more than 2 files there, compute hashCode of every file by MD5, if any files with the same size have the same hash, then they are identical files: Map<String, Set>, mapping each hash to the Set of filepaths+filenames. This hash id's are very very big, so we use the Java library BigInteger.      

Question-3:     
If you can only read the file by 1kb each time, how will you modify your solution?     
Answer:    
makeHashQuick Function is quick but memory hungry, might likely to run with java -Xmx2G or the likely to increase heap space if RAM avaliable.     
we might need to play with the size defined by "buffSize" to make memory efficient.       

Question-4:     
What is the time complexity of your modified solution? What is the most time-consuming part and memory consuming part of it? How to optimize?      
Answer:    
hashing part is the most time-consuming and memory consuming.   
optimize as below mentioned, but also introduce false positive issue.       
To optimize Step-2. In GFS, it stores large file in multiple "chunks" (one chunk is 64KB). we have meta data, including the file size, file name and index of different chunks along with each chunk's checkSum(the xor for the content). For step-2, we just compare each file's checkSum.       
Disadvantage: there might be flase positive duplicates, because two different files might share the same checkSum.       

Question-5:     
How to make sure the duplicated files you find are not false positive?       
Answer:     
Question-2-Answer-1 will avoid it.      
We need to compare the content chunk by chunk when we find two "duplicates" using checkSum.      


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashMap<String for contents, list for path>      
Time complexity : O(n* x). nn strings of average length x is parsed.
Space complexity : O(n* x). mapmap and resres size grows upto n* x.

    public List<List<String>> findDuplicate(String[] paths) {
        //prepare for result
        List<List<String>> result = new ArrayList<>();
        
        //check for extreme condition
        if(paths.length == 0 || paths == null){
            return result;
        }
        
        //create a HashMap<content, list for path>
        HashMap<String, List<String>> map = new HashMap<> ();
        for(String path : paths){
            String[] values = path.split(" ");
            for(int i = 1; i < values.length; i++){
                String[] name_cont = values[i].split("\\(");
                name_cont[1] = name_cont[1].replace(")", "");
                List<String> list = map.getOrDefault(name_cont[1], new ArrayList<String> ());
                list.add(values[0] + "/" + name_cont[0]);
                map.put(name_cont[1], list);
            }
        }
        
        for(String key : map.keySet()){
            if(map.get(key).size() > 1){
                result.add(map.get(key));
            }
        }
        
        return result;
        
    }


### Code in Python.   
After parsing, we have some path and content. Let's store a map M[content] = [path1, path2, ...]. At the end, we want all values in this map with length > 1.

    def findDuplicate(self, paths):
       M = collections.defaultdict(list)
       for line in paths:
          data = line.split()
          root = data[0]
          for file in data[1:]:
              name, _, content = file.partition('(')
              M[content[:-1]].append(root + '/' + name)
            
       return [x for x in M.values() if len(x) > 1]



