---
title: 1048. Longest String Chain (medium)                   
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Dynamic Programming]            
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    

Given a matrix consisting of 0s and 1s, we may choose any number of columns in the matrix and flip every cell in that column.  Flipping a cell changes the value of that cell from 0 to 1 or from 1 to 0.     
Return the maximum number of rows that have all values equal after some number of flips.     

Example 1:    
Input: [[0,1],[1,1]]    
Output: 1    
Explanation: After flipping no values, 1 row has all values equal.      

Example 2:     
Input: [[0,1],[1,0]]    
Output: 2   
Explanation: After flipping values in the first column, both rows have equal values.     

Example 3:     
Input: [[0,0,0],[0,0,1],[1,1,0]]    
Output: 2    
Explanation: After flipping values in the first two columns, the last two rows have equal values.    

Note:     
1 <= matrix.length <= 300    
1 <= matrix[i].length <= 300   
All matrix[i].length's are equal   
matrix[i][j] is 0 or 1    



----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
DP solution. Sort the words by word's length. (also can apply bucket sort); For each word, loop on all possible previous word with 1 letter missing. If we have seen this previous word, update the longest chain for the current word. Finally return the longest word chain.     
DFS solution with memo.      




----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
DP solution   

    class Solution {
      public int longestStrChain(String[] words) {
        Map<String, Integer> dp = new HashMap<>();
        Arrays.sort(words, (a, b)->a.length() - b.length());
        int res = 0;
        
        for (String word : words) {
            int best = 0;
            for (int i = 0; i < word.length(); ++i) {
                String prev = word.substring(0, i) + word.substring(i + 1);
                best = Math.max(best, dp.getOrDefault(prev, 0) + 1);
            }
            dp.put(word, best);
            res = Math.max(res, best);
        }
        
        return res;
      }
    }

DFS with memo    

    class Solution {
      public int longestStrChain(String[] words) {
        int ans = 0;
        Set<String> set = new HashSet<>();
        Map<String, Integer> map = new HashMap<>();
        for(String word : words) set.add(word);
        for(String word : words) ans = Math.max(ans, helper(map, set, word));
        return ans;
      }
    
      private int helper(Map<String, Integer> map, Set<String> set, String word){
        if(map.containsKey(word)) return map.get(word);
        int cnt = 0;
        for(int i = 0; i < word.length(); i++){
            String next = word.substring(0, i) + word.substring(i+1);
            if(set.contains(next)){
                cnt = Math.max(cnt, helper(map, set, next));
            }
        }
        map.put(word, 1 + cnt);
        return 1 + cnt;
      }
    }


### Code in Python.   
DP solution    

    def longestStrChain(self, words):
        dp = {}
        for w in sorted(words, key=len):
            dp[w] = max(dp.get(w[:i] + w[i + 1:], 0) + 1 for i in xrange(len(w)))
        return max(dp.values())



