---
title: 274. H-Index (medium)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Sort]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given an array of citations (each citation is a non-negative integer) of a researcher, write a function to compute the researcher's h-index.      
According to the definition of h-index on Wikipedia: "A scientist has index h if h of his/her N papers have at least h citations each, and the other N − h papers have no more than h citations each."      

Example:     
Input: citations = [3,0,6,1,5]     
Output: 3      
Explanation: [3,0,6,1,5] means the researcher has 5 papers in total and each of them had received 3, 0, 6, 1, 5 citations respectively. Since the researcher has 3 papers with at least 3 citations each and the remaining two with no more than 3 citations each, her h-index is 3.    
Note: If there are several possible values for h, the maximum one is taken as the h-index.     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
My initial idea is to sort the int[] citations, and check element in citations[] whether it bigger than or equal to (n - i) which is based on "the other N − h papers have no more than h citations each".      

    for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
        if(citations[i] >= (n - i)){}
    }
It is also posted on https://leetcode.com/problems/h-index/discuss/310217/Java-solution-with-sort     

Second idea is using int[] acting like HashMap to store the frequence. We create an array "arr" which acts like a HashMap (using pigeon hole principle) and loop backwards from the highest element, then we find "tot" which is the total number of papers that has more than i citations, and we stop when tot>=i (total number of papers with more than i citations >= i). We don't need to keep going because we are trying the biggest i possible, we we stop and return the result.    





----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Sort   

    class Solution {
      public int hIndex(int[] citations) {
      //prepare for result
      int result = 0;
 
      //check for extreme condition
      if(citations == null || citations.length == 0){
        return result;
      }
 
      //sort the int 
      Arrays.sort(citations);
 
      //get the length of citations
      int n = citations.length;
 
      //compare
      for(int i = 0; i < n; i++){
        if(citations[i] >= (n - i)){
            //return citations[i] is wrong, think of test case [100]
            //h < n
            //we should think h-index based on length
         
            return (n-i);       
          }
      }
 
      return result;
     }
    }

Array and check for total number of papers hat has more than i citations.    

    public int hIndex(int[] citations) {
      int n = citations.length, tot=0;
      int[] arr = new int[n+1];
      for (int i=0; i<n; i++) {
         if (citations[i]>=n) arr[n]++;
         else arr[citations[i]]++;
      }
      for (int i=n; i>=0; i--) {
         tot += arr[i];
         if (tot>=i) return i;
      }
      
      return 0;
    }


### Code in Python.   



