---
title: 876. Middle of the Linked List (easy)                   
author: zhou      
tags: [Linked List]            
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    

Given a non-empty, singly linked list with head node head, return a middle node of linked list.     
If there are two middle nodes, return the second middle node.      

Example 1:    
Input: [1,2,3,4,5]    
Output: Node 3 from this list (Serialization: [3,4,5])    
The returned node has value 3.  (The judge's serialization of this node is [3,4,5]).     
Note that we returned a ListNode object ans, such that:      
ans.val = 3, ans.next.val = 4, ans.next.next.val = 5, and ans.next.next.next = NULL.      

Example 2:     
Input: [1,2,3,4,5,6]     
Output: Node 4 from this list (Serialization: [4,5,6])      
Since the list has two middle nodes with values 3 and 4, we return the second one.      

Note:     
The number of nodes in the given list will be between 1 and 100.       


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        

I. My first idea is checking for the length of linked list, and find the middle length, then get that node.     

II. output to array. Put every node into an array A in order. Then the middle node is just A[A.length // 2], since we can retrieve each node by index.      
Time Complexity: O(N), where NN is the number of nodes in the given list.      
Space Complexity: O(N), the space used by A.       

III. Fast and Slow Pointer. When traversing the list with a pointer slow, make another pointer fast that traverses twice as fast. When fast reaches the end of the list, slow must be in the middle.      



----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Check and get the middle length, and get that node    

    public ListNode middleNode(ListNode head) {
        ListNode curr = head;
        
        int total = 0;
        while(curr != null){
            total++;
            curr = curr.next;
        }        
        
        /*
        if(total % 2 == 0){
            total = total/2 + 1;
        }
        else{
            total = total/2 + 1;
        }
        */
        
        //find the middle one
        total = total/2 + 1;
        
        ListNode cur = head;
        for(int i = 1; i < total; ++i){
            cur = cur.next;
        }
        
        return cur;
    }

Output to array  

    public ListNode middleNode(ListNode head) {
        ListNode[] A = new ListNode[100];
        
        int t = 0;
        while(head.next != null){
            A[t++] = head;
            head = head.next;
        }
        
        return A[t / 2];
    }

Fast and Slow pointer    

    public ListNode middleNode(ListNode head) {
        ListNode slow = head, fast = head;
        while (fast != null && fast.next != null) {
            slow = slow.next;
            fast = fast.next.next;
        }
        return slow;
    }


### Code in Python.   
Output to array   

    class Solution(object):
    def middleNode(self, head):
        A = [head]
        while A[-1].next:
            A.append(A[-1].next)
        return A[len(A) / 2]

Two Pointer    

    class Solution(object):
      def middleNode(self, head):
        slow = fast = head
        while fast and fast.next:
            slow = slow.next
            fast = fast.next.next
        return slow

