---
title: 648. Replace Words (medium)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Trie]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
In English, we have a concept called root, which can be followed by some other words to form another longer word - let's call this word successor. For example, the root an, followed by other, which can form another word another.       
Now, given a dictionary consisting of many roots and a sentence. You need to replace all the successor in the sentence with the root forming it. If a successor has many roots can form it, replace it with the root with the shortest length.      
You need to output the sentence after the replacement.      

Example 1:     
Input: dict = ["cat", "bat", "rat"]    
sentence = "the cattle was rattled by the battery"     
Output: "the cat was rat by the bat"      

Note:      
The input will only have lower-case letters.     
1 <= dict words number <= 1000    
1 <= sentence words number <= 1000   
1 <= root length <= 100     
1 <= sentence words length <= 1000     



----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
Initial idea is creating HashSet(actually I would like to build HashMap for word in sentence, but not work) for root word in roots list. Then create a StringBuilder to record anyword we converted or not. Convert string sentence to word array (use split("\\s+")), for every word, check for every substring(from one word to more words) with HashSet. Add right string inside SB, at the end, convert to String.   
Second idea, use trie to check every word. Put all the roots in a trie (prefix tree). Then for any query word, we can find the smallest root that was a prefix in linear time. Difficulties are here: children of trieNode (new TrieNode[26]); for every char in every word of sentences, check for (cur.children[letter - 'a'] == null || cur.word != null): whether TrieNode cur doesn't have children, whether word of cur node isn't null (since once the characters are all combined, the word will be not null).       


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashSet<root>, SB and substring.    
Time Complexity: O(∑ (\sum) w_i^2) where w_i is the length of the i-th word. We might check every prefix, the i-th of which is O(w_i^2) work.        
Space Complexity: O(N) where N is the length of our sentence; the space used by rootset.     

    public String replaceWords(List<String> roots, String sentence) {
        //prepare for result
        String res = null;
        
        //check for extreme condition
        if(roots == null || sentence == null){
            return res;
        }
        
        //HashSet<String> for root
        HashSet<String> set = new HashSet<> ();
        for(String root : roots){
            set.add(root);
        }
        
        //SB for recording needed string
        StringBuilder SB = new StringBuilder();
        //check for substrings (from least to more) of every String in sentence.split(" ")
        String[] strArray = sentence.split("\\s+");
        for(String str : strArray){
            String sub = "";
            for(int i = 1; i <= str.length(); ++i ){
                sub = str.substring(0, i);
                if(set.contains(sub)){
                    break;
                }
            }
            
            if(SB.length() > 0){
                SB.append(" ");
            }
            
            SB.append(sub);
            
        }
        
        //convert SB to string
        res = SB.toString();
        
        return res;
        
    }

Trie for query word.    

    class Solution {
      //Use trie 
      class TrieNode{
        TrieNode[] children;
        String word;
        TrieNode(){
            children = new TrieNode[26];
        }
      }
    
      public String replaceWords(List<String> roots, String sentence) {
        TrieNode trie = new TrieNode();
        
        //add character to children and root word as word
        for(String root : roots){
            TrieNode cur = trie;
            for(char letter : root.toCharArray()){  //first root node is empty 
                if(cur.children[letter - 'a'] == null){
                    cur.children[letter - 'a'] = new TrieNode();
                }
                cur = cur.children[letter - 'a']; //move to next children
            }
            
            cur.word = root;
        }
        
        StringBuilder ans = new StringBuilder();
        
        //check for every word string
        for(String word : sentence.split("\\s+")){
            if(ans.length() > 0){
                ans.append(" ");
            }
            
            TrieNode cur = trie;
            for(char letter : word.toCharArray()){
                //once the characters are all combined, the word will be not null
                if(cur.children[letter - 'a'] == null || cur.word != null){
                    break;
                }
                cur = cur.children[letter - 'a'];
            }
            
            ans.append(cur.word != null ? cur.word : word);
        }
        
        return ans.toString();
      }
    }




### Code in Python.   
First method with HashSet idea.   

    def replaceWords(self, roots, sentence):
       rootset = set(roots)

       def replace(word):
          for i in xrange(1, len(word)):
            if word[:i] in rootset:
                return word[:i]
          return word

       return " ".join(map(replace, sentence.split()))

Trie method    

    class Solution(object):
      def replaceWords(self, roots, sentence):
         Trie = lambda: collections.defaultdict(Trie)
         trie = Trie()
         END = True

         for root in roots:
            reduce(dict.__getitem__, root, trie)[END] = root

         def replace(word):
            cur = trie
            for letter in word:
                if letter not in cur or END in cur: break
                cur = cur[letter]
            return cur.get(END, word)

         return " ".join(map(replace, sentence.split()))

