---
title: 645. Set Mismatch (easy)                 
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Math]          
---



## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
The set S originally contains numbers from 1 to n. But unfortunately, due to the data error, one of the numbers in the set got duplicated to another number in the set, which results in repetition of one number and loss of another number.     
Given an array nums representing the data status of this set after the error. Your task is to firstly find the number occurs twice and then find the number that is missing. Return them in the form of an array.      
Example 1:     
Input: nums = [1,2,2,4]   
Output: [2,3]   
Note:   
The given array size will in the range [2, 10000].   
The given array's numbers won't have any order.      


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
1. Initialize an int[] for the result, in this situation, since we don't know the length, we can create it once we know how long the final result will be.        
2. Check the extreme situation    
3. Create a HashMap to record all ements and its frequence in nums[]     
4. check from 1 to n for its frequence, 2 and 0.    
After check the discussion, I found we can also use sort method.     
Or similar way, we can use extra array instead of HashMap to store the frequence.    



----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashMap<Integer, Integer> for element and its frequence.   

    class Solution {
    public int[] findErrorNums(int[] nums) {
        
        //Check the ectreme condition
        if(nums.length == 1){
            return nums;
        }
        
        //Create a HashMap to record all elements in nums[]
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<> ();
        for(int i : nums){
            map.put(i, map.getOrDefault(i, 0) + 1);
        }
        int size = map.size();
        
        int duplicate = -1, missing = -1;
        //Check from 1 to n
        for (int i = 1; i < nums.length + 1; i++){
            if(map.containsKey(i)){
                if(map.get(i) == 2){
                    duplicate = i;
                }
            }
            else{
                missing = i;
            }
        }
        
        //Initialize an int[] for result
        int[] result = {duplicate, missing};
        
        return result;
        
     }
    }

Sort Method.    

    public class Solution {
    public int[] findErrorNums(int[] nums) {
        Arrays.sort(nums);
        int dup = -1, missing = 1;
        for (int i = 1; i < nums.length; i++) {
            if (nums[i] == nums[i - 1])
                dup = nums[i];
            else if (nums[i] > nums[i - 1] + 1)
                missing = nums[i - 1] + 1;
        }
        return new int[] {dup, nums[nums.length - 1] != nums.length ? nums.length : missing};
     }
    }

Extra Array    

    public class Solution {
    public int[] findErrorNums(int[] nums) {
        int[] arr = new int[nums.length + 1];
        int dup = -1, missing = 1;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
            arr[nums[i]] += 1;
        }
        for (int i = 1; i < arr.length; i++) {
            if (arr[i] == 0)
                missing = i;
            else if (arr[i] == 2)
                dup = i;
        }
        return new int[]{dup, missing};
     }
    }



### Code in Python.   



