---
title: 205. Isomorphic Strings (easy)              
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]        
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given two strings s and t, determine if they are isomorphic. [同构]     
Two strings are isomorphic if the characters in s can be replaced to get t.    
All occurrences of a character must be replaced with another character while preserving the order of characters. No two characters may map to the same character but a character may map to itself.    
Example 1:    
Input: s = "egg", t = "add"     
Output: true (abb)      
Example 2:   
Input: s = "foo", t = "bar"    
Output: false (abb, abc)      
Example 3:   
Input: s = "paper", t = "title"   
Output: true (abacd)      
Note:   
You may assume both s and t have the same length.    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
The main idea is to store the last seen positions of current (i-th) characters in both strings. If previously stored positions are different then we know that the fact they're occuring in the current i-th position simultaneously is a mistake. We could use a map for storing but as we deal with chars which are basically ints and can be used as indices we can do the whole thing with an array.     

The reason why using 512 may be there are 256 characters in ASCII, 0-127 for basic ASCII, 128-255 for extended ASCII.    

However, <b> My thought is easy for me to understand </b>. We create two different int array with more than or equal to 256 integers with initializing to 0. And check the m1[" (first character of s1) "] equal to m2[" (first character of s2) "], if not, return false, otherwise, check next.   


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
Code in Java.     

My thoughts.   

       class Solution {
       public boolean isIsomorphic(String s, String t) {
        if(s == null || t == null || s.length() != t.length()) {
            return true;
        }
        
        //equal to or more than 256 for 256 in ASCII covers all 
        int[] m1 = new int[256];
        int[] m2 = new int[256];
        
        for(int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++){
            if(m1[s.charAt(i)] != m2[t.charAt(i)]){
                return false;
            }
            //else, they are same, add 1 in the value of this place
            m1[s.charAt(i)] = m2[t.charAt(i)] = i+1;
        }
        
        return true;
        
        }
       }


ASCII

       class Solution {
       public boolean isIsomorphic(String s1, String s2) {
        int[] m = new int[512];
        
        for (int i = 0; i < s1.length(); i++) {
            if (m[s1.charAt(i)] != m[s2.charAt(i)+256]) {
                return false;
            }
            
            m[s1.charAt(i)] = m[s2.charAt(i)+256] = i+1;
        }
        return true;
       }
      }


Java solution using HashMap    

       class Solution {
       public boolean isIsomorphic(String s, String t) {
        if(s == null || s.length() <= 1) return true;
        HashMap<Character, Character> map = new HashMap<Character, Character>();
        for(int i = 0 ; i< s.length(); i++){
            char a = s.charAt(i);
            char b = t.charAt(i);
            if(map.containsKey(a)){
                 if(map.get(a).equals(b))
                continue;
                else
                return false;
            }else{
                if(!map.containsValue(b))
                map.put(a,b);
                else return false;
                
            }
         }
         return true;
        }
       }



