---
title: 381. Insert Delete GetRandom O(1) - Duplicates allowed (hard)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Array,Design]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Design a data structure that supports all following operations in average O(1) time.       

<b> Note: Duplicate elements are allowed. </b>        
insert(val): Inserts an item val to the collection.   
remove(val): Removes an item val from the collection if present.    
getRandom: Returns a random element from current collection of elements. The probability of each element being returned is linearly related to the number of same value the collection contains.       

Example:   

// Init an empty collection.    
RandomizedCollection collection = new RandomizedCollection();    

// Inserts 1 to the collection. Returns true as the collection did not contain 1.    
collection.insert(1);    

// Inserts another 1 to the collection. Returns false as the collection contained 1. Collection now contains [1,1].    
collection.insert(1);    

// Inserts 2 to the collection, returns true. Collection now contains [1,1,2].    
collection.insert(2);    

// getRandom should return 1 with the probability 2/3, and returns 2 with the probability 1/3.    
collection.getRandom();    

// Removes 1 from the collection, returns true. Collection now contains [1,2].    
collection.remove(1);    

// getRandom should return 1 and 2 both equally likely.    
collection.getRandom();    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
The follow-up: allowing duplications.     
For example, after insert(1), insert(1), insert(2), getRandom() should have 2/3 chance return 1 and 1/3 chance return 2.
Then, remove(1), 1 and 2 should have an equal chance of being selected by getRandom().      
1. My initial thought is that use HashMap<Integer, Integer> for recording element and its frequence. Also used iterator() for finding desired element needed to remove. But the solution is really slow.         
2. Try to use HashMap<Integer, Set<Integer>> to record element and its place in list. Using LinkedHashSet (new LinkedHashSet<Integer>() ) can be considered as O(1) if we only get the first element to remove.       


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashMap for frequence and Iterator.     

    class RandomizedCollection {

    HashMap<Integer, Integer> map;
    ArrayList<Integer> list;
    
    java.util.Random rand = new java.util.Random();
    
    /** Initialize your data structure here. */
    public RandomizedCollection() {
        map = new HashMap<Integer, Integer>();
        list = new ArrayList<Integer> ();
    }
    
    /** Inserts a value to the collection. Returns true if the collection did not already contain the specified element. */
    public boolean insert(int val) {
        boolean contain = map.containsKey(val);
        if(!contain){
            map.put(val, 0);
        }
        map.put(val, map.get(val) + 1);
        list.add(val);
        
        return !contain;
    }
    
    /** Removes a value from the collection. Returns true if the collection contained the specified element. */
    public boolean remove(int val) {
        boolean contain = map.containsKey(val);
        //there is no val element
        if(!contain){
            return false;
        }
        //there is no frequence for val
        if(map.get(val) == 0){
            map.remove(val);
            return false;
        }
        
        if(map.get(val) > 0){
            Iterator<Integer> it = list.iterator();
            Integer target = val;
            while(it.hasNext()){
                Integer a = it.next();
                if(a.equals(target)){
                    it.remove();
                    map.put(val , map.get(val) - 1);
                    break; //only minus 1 once a time
                }
            }
        }
        
        return true;
        
    }
    
    /** Get a random element from the collection. */
    public int getRandom() {
        return list.get(rand.nextInt(list.size()));
    }
    }

       /**
       * Your RandomizedCollection object will be instantiated and called as such:
       * RandomizedCollection obj = new RandomizedCollection();
       * boolean param_1 = obj.insert(val);
       * boolean param_2 = obj.remove(val);
       * int param_3 = obj.getRandom();
       */


HashMap<Integer, Set<Integer>> record element and its place.     

    public class RandomizedCollection {
    
    ArrayList<Integer> nums;
	HashMap<Integer, Set<Integer>> locs;
	java.util.Random rand = new java.util.Random();
    /** Initialize your data structure here. */
    public RandomizedCollection() {
        nums = new ArrayList<Integer>();
	    locs = new HashMap<Integer, Set<Integer>>();
    }
    
    /** Inserts a value to the collection. Returns true if the collection did not already contain the specified element. */
    public boolean insert(int val) {
        boolean contain = locs.containsKey(val);
	    if ( ! contain ) locs.put( val, new LinkedHashSet<Integer>() ); 
	    locs.get(val).add(nums.size());        
	    nums.add(val);
	    return ! contain ;
    }
    
    /** Removes a value from the collection. Returns true if the collection contained the specified element. */
    public boolean remove(int val) {
        boolean contain = locs.containsKey(val);
	    if ( ! contain ) return false;
	    int loc = locs.get(val).iterator().next();
	    locs.get(val).remove(loc);
	    if (loc < nums.size() - 1 ) {
	       int lastone = nums.get( nums.size()-1 );
	       nums.set( loc , lastone );
	       locs.get(lastone).remove( nums.size()-1);
	       locs.get(lastone).add(loc);
	    }
	    nums.remove(nums.size() - 1);
	   
	    if (locs.get(val).isEmpty()) locs.remove(val);
	    return true;
    }
    
    /** Get a random element from the collection. */
    public int getRandom() {
        return nums.get( rand.nextInt(nums.size()) );
    }
    
    }


### Code in Python.   




