---
title: 535. Encode and Decode TinyURL (medium)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Math]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
TinyURL is a URL shortening service where you enter a URL such as https://leetcode.com/problems/design-tinyurl and it returns a short URL such as http://tinyurl.com/4e9iAk.     
Design the encode and decode methods for the TinyURL service. There is no restriction on how your encode/decode algorithm should work. You just need to ensure that a URL can be encoded to a tiny URL and the tiny URL can be decoded to the original URL.      
Actually, this description is vague, cannot understand clearly.    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
Encode method asks us to encode longUrl to shortUrl; decode method asks us to decode shortUrl to longUrl.     
In industry, most of shorten url service is by database, one auto increasing long number as primary key. whenever a long url need to be shorten, append to the database, and return the primary key number. (the database is very easy to distribute to multiple machine like HBase, or even you can use the raw file system to store data and improve performance by shard and replica).           
Note, it's meaningless to promise the same long url to be shorten as the same short url. if you do the promise and use something like hash to check existing, the benefit is must less than the cost.     
Note: if you want the shorted url contains '0-9a-zA-Z' instead of '0-9', then you need to use 62 number system, not 10 number system(decimal) to convert the primary key number. like 123->'123' in decimal, 123->'1Z' in 62 number system (or '0001Z' for align).    

Initial idea is based on size of list of long urls (every time we add longUrl to list) to convert into string; then in decode, we convert back to index, then base on this index, we find the urls[i].       
But first solution has several disadvantages:    
1. If I'm asked to encode the same long URL several times, it will get several entries. That wastes codes and memory.     
2. People can find out how many URLs have already been encoded. Not sure I want them to know.     
3. People might try to get special numbers by spamming me with repeated requests shortly before their desired number comes up.      
4. Only using digits means the codes can grow unnecessarily large. Only offers a million codes with length 6 (or smaller). Using six digits or lower or upper case letters would offer (10+26* 2)6 = 56,800,235,584 codes with length 6.      

Second idea is more serious. It produces short URLs like http://tinyurl.com/KtLa2U, using a random code of six digits or letters. If a long URL is already known, the existing short URL is used and no new entry is generated.        


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Index of list of longUrls.        

    public class Codec {
      //Create a list for storing
      List<String> list = new ArrayList<> ();
    
      // Encodes a URL to a shortened URL.
      public String encode(String longUrl) {
        list.add(longUrl);
        return String.valueOf(list.size() - 1); //这里我们需要根据urls.size() - 1 知道index 是第几个，这样decode才可以取值
      }

      // Decodes a shortened URL to its original URL.
      public String decode(String shortUrl) {
        int index = Integer.valueOf(shortUrl);  //这里的shorUrl 是根据前面的return 得来的
        return (index < list.size() ? list.get(index) : "");
      }
    }

HashMap<key, longUrl>, HashMap<longUrl, key>    

    public class Codec {
     //Two HashMaps 
     HashMap<String, String> map = new HashMap<> ();
     HashMap<String, String> reverseMap = new HashMap<> ();
     static String base = "http://tinyurl.com/";

     // Encodes a URL to a shortened URL.
     public String encode(String longUrl) {
        if(reverseMap.containsKey(longUrl)){
            return base + reverseMap.get(longUrl);
        }
        
        String key = null;
        String charSet = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ0123456789";
        //Get the key first, and check whether it contains before
        do{
            StringBuilder SB = new StringBuilder();
            //needs 6-digits
            for(int i = 0; i <= 6; i++){
                int r = (int)(Math.random() * charSet.length());
                SB.append(charSet.charAt(r));
            }
            key = SB.toString();
        } while(map.containsKey(key));
        
        map.put(key, longUrl);
        reverseMap.put(longUrl, key);
        return base + key;
        
     }

     // Decodes a shortened URL to its original URL.
     public String decode(String shortUrl) {
        return map.get(shortUrl.replace(base, ""));
     }
    }

       // Your Codec object will be instantiated and called as such:
       // Codec codec = new Codec();
       // codec.decode(codec.encode(url));



### Code in Python.   






