---
title: 206. Reverse Linked List (easy)                   
author: zhou      
tags: [Linked List]            
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    

Reverse a singly linked list.       

Example:     
Input: 1->2->3->4->5->NULL    
Output: 5->4->3->2->1->NULL      

Follow up:    
A linked list can be reversed either iteratively or recursively. Could you implement both?      


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        

I. Iterative     
Update one node by one node. Change next to curr, curr to prev, prev to next.      
Since a node does not have reference to its previous node, you must store its previous element beforehand. You also need another pointer to store the next node before changing the reference. Do not forget to return the new head reference at the end!      
Time complexity : O(n). Assume that nn is the list's length, the time complexity is O(n).       
Space complexity : O(1).        

II. Recursive     
The recursive version is slightly trickier and the key is to work backwards. Assume that the rest of the list had already been reversed, now how do I reverse the front part?      




----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Iterative    

    public ListNode reverseList(ListNode head) {
        ListNode prev = null;
        ListNode curr = head;
        
        while(curr != null){
            ListNode temp = curr.next;
            curr.next = prev;
            prev = curr;
            curr = temp;
        }
        
        return prev;
    }

Recursive    

    public ListNode reverseList(ListNode head) {
        if (head == null || head.next == null) return head;
        
        ListNode p = reverseList(head.next);
        head.next.next = head;
        head.next = null;
        
        return p;
    }


### Code in Python.   
Iterative and Recursive    

    class Solution(object):        
    def reverseList(self, head):  # Iterative
        prev, curr = None, head
        while curr:
            curr.next, prev, curr = prev, curr, curr.next
        return prev
        
    def reverseList_v1(self, head):  # Recursive
        """
        :type head: ListNode
        :rtype: ListNode
        """     
        if not head or not head.next:
            return head
        p = self.reverseList(head.next)
        head.next.next = head
        head.next = None
        return p 



