---
title: 454. 4Sum II (medium)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Binary Search]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given four lists A, B, C, D of integer values, compute how many tuples (i, j, k, l) there are such that A[i] + B[j] + C[k] + D[l] is zero.       
To make problem a bit easier, all A, B, C, D have same length of N where 0 ≤ N ≤ 500. All integers are in the range of -2^28 to 2^28 - 1 and the result is guaranteed to be at most 2^31 - 1.        

Example:    

Input:   
A = [ 1, 2]   
B = [-2,-1]   
C = [-1, 2]   
D = [ 0, 2]   

Output:   
2   

Explanation:   
The two tuples are:    
1. (0, 0, 0, 1) -> A[0] + B[0] + C[0] + D[1] = 1 + (-2) + (-1) + 2 = 0   
2. (1, 1, 0, 0) -> A[1] + B[1] + C[0] + D[0] = 2 + (-1) + (-1) + 0 = 0    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
Solutions are not hard to think of. First create a HashMap<Integer, Integer>. It used to record sum and the frequence of sum. First, we check for the sum of A and B and the frequence of the sum; second, we check for the negative sum of C and D, one thing, we need to reverse C and D, since A + B + C + D = 0, A + B = -(C + D). If there is -(C[i] + D[j]) in map, add the frequence, otherwise, add 0.    
Second idea is creating two int[A* B] for sum of A[i] + B[j], int[C* D] for negative sum of C[i] + D[j]. Sort these two. if sumAB = negSumCD, then 4 sum = 0. sumAB[i] == negSumCD[j], need to count number of same consecutive values, and multiply them. Comparing with map, this solution using sorting costs O(n^2* log(n)) time but actually runs faster because it avoids map overheads (my hash map solution beats only 71%). Of course for very large n, map solution eventually wins, but curious what n would it be.         



----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashMap for two sum and another two sum with their frequence.    

    class Solution {
     public int fourSumCount(int[] A, int[] B, int[] C, int[] D) {
        //prepare for result
        int result = 0;
        
        //check for extreme condition
        if(A.length == 0){ //since A B C D are same length, only need to check one
            return result;
        }
        
        //Create a HashMap<Integer, Integer> to record sum and frequence
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<> ();
        
        //check for A B
        for(int i = 0; i < A.length; i++){
            for(int j = 0; j < B.length; j++){
                int sum = A[i] + B[j];
                map.put(sum, map.getOrDefault(sum, 0) + 1);
            }
        }
        
        //check for C D
        for(int i = 0; i < C.length; i++){
            for(int j = 0; j < D.length; j++){
                int sum = - (C[i] + D[j]);  //since A + B + C + D = 0, A + B = -(C + D)
                result += map.getOrDefault(sum, 0);
            }
        }
        
        return result;
     }
    }

Sorted sum of A B and sorted negative sum of C D and compared them.      

    public int fourSumCount(int[] A, int[] B, int[] C, int[] D) {
    /* sorting, O(n^2*log(n)) time, O(n^2) space, no map */
    int nAB = A.length * B.length;
    int[] sumAB = new int[nAB];
    int i = 0;
    for (int a : A) {
        for (int b : B) {
            sumAB[i++] = a + b;
        }
    }
    Arrays.sort(sumAB);
    int nCD = C.length * D.length;
    int[] negSumCD = new int[nCD];
    i = 0;
    for (int c : C) {
        for (int d : D) {
            negSumCD[i++] = - (c + d);
        }
    }
    Arrays.sort(negSumCD);
    // if sumAB = negSumCD, then 4 sum = 0
    i = 0;
    int j = 0;
    int res = 0;
    while (i < nAB && j < nCD) {
        if (sumAB[i] < negSumCD[j]) i++;
        else if (sumAB[i] > negSumCD[j]) j++;
        else {
            // sumAB[i] == negSumCD[j]
            // need to count number of same consecutive values, and multiply them
            int countAB = 1, countCD = 1;
            while (++i < nAB && sumAB[i-1] == sumAB[i]) countAB += 1;
            while (++j < nCD && negSumCD[j-1] == negSumCD[j]) countCD += 1;
            res += countAB * countCD;
        }
    }
    return res;
    }


### Code in Python.   
Similar idea.   

    def fourSumCount(self, A, B, C, D):
       AB = collections.Counter(a+b for a in A for b in B)
       return sum(AB[-c-d] for c in C for d in D)

