---
title: 599. Minimum Index Sum of Two Lists (easy)                 
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Suppose Andy and Doris want to choose a restaurant for dinner, and they both have a list of favorite restaurants represented by strings.   
You need to help them find out their common interest with the least list index sum. If there is a choice tie between answers, output all of them with no order requirement. You could assume there always exists an answer.    

Example 1:   
Input:    
["Shogun", "Tapioca Express", "Burger King", "KFC"]    
["Piatti", "The Grill at Torrey Pines", "Hungry Hunter Steakhouse", "Shogun"]    
Output: ["Shogun"]    
Explanation: The only restaurant they both like is "Shogun".    
Example 2:   
Input:   
["Shogun", "Tapioca Express", "Burger King", "KFC"]    
["KFC", "Shogun", "Burger King"]   
Output: ["Shogun"]    
Explanation: The restaurant they both like and have the least index sum is "Shogun" with index sum 1 (0+1).    
Note:    
The length of both lists will be in the range of [1, 1000].    
The length of strings in both lists will be in the range of [1, 30].   
The index is starting from 0 to the list length minus 1.   
No duplicates in both lists.    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        








----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashMap record list1[], compare the string of list2[] and element of HashMap.   

    class Solution {
    public String[] findRestaurant(String[] list1, String[] list2) {
      //Initialize a String[] for result
      String[] result = new String[1];
    
      //Check the extreme condition
      if(list1.length == 1){
        return list1;
      }
      else if(list2.length == 1){
        return list2;
      }
    
      //Create a HashMap to store the list1
      HashMap<String, Integer> map = new HashMap<> ();
      for(int i = 0; i < list1.length; i++){
        map.put(list1[i], i);
      }
      int size1 = map.size();
    
      //Get the value for minimum and res string
      int minimum = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
      LinkedList<String> linkedList = new LinkedList<>();
      //Check the string of list2[] with HashMap
      for(int i = 0; i < list2.length; i++){
        if(map.containsKey(list2[i])){
            if(i + map.get(list2[i]) < minimum){
                linkedList.clear();
                minimum = i + map.get(list2[i]);
                linkedList.add(list2[i]);
            }
            else if(i + map.get(list2[i]) == minimum){
                linkedList.add(list2[i]);
            }
            
        }
      }
    
      //Convert LinkedList to string[]
      result = linkedList.toArray(new String[linkedList.size()]);
    
      return result;
    
     }
    }   



### Code in Python.   



