---
title: 380. Insert Delete GetRandom O(1) (medium) Need update for iterate from end to begin!                     
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Array,Design]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Design a data structure that supports all following operations in average O(1) time.      
insert(val): Inserts an item val to the set if not already present.      
remove(val): Removes an item val from the set if present.       
getRandom: Returns a random element from current set of elements. Each element must have the same probability of being returned.      

Example:   

// Init an empty set.    
RandomizedSet randomSet = new RandomizedSet();     

// Inserts 1 to the set. Returns true as 1 was inserted successfully.     
randomSet.insert(1);    

// Returns false as 2 does not exist in the set.    
randomSet.remove(2);     

// Inserts 2 to the set, returns true. Set now contains [1,2].    
randomSet.insert(2);     

// getRandom should return either 1 or 2 randomly.    
randomSet.getRandom();    

// Removes 1 from the set, returns true. Set now contains [2].    
randomSet.remove(1);    

// 2 was already in the set, so return false.    
randomSet.insert(2);     

// Since 2 is the only number in the set, getRandom always return 2.     
randomSet.getRandom();     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
1. We can use HashSet to check whether there is same element inside and ArrayList to store elements we want; also use iterator to remove element in ArrayList for "not last one element in list" situation.    
2. Or we can use HashMap to record val and its place in list; if it is not the last element, we need to "swap" last element and current val, and then delete last element and minus 1 for the size of list.        
2 -2. Maybe right. Also I have thoughts here: https://leetcode.com/problems/insert-delete-getrandom-o1/discuss/85401/Java-solution-using-a-HashMap-and-an-ArrayList-along-with-a-follow-up.-(131-ms). I know we cannot delete element directly but we can delete it by iterating elements from end to begin, then it will not influence other elements. Needs update!!    


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashSet, ArrayList and iterator     

    class RandomizedSet {
    
    ArrayList<Integer> list;
    HashSet<Integer> set;
    
    //prepare for random
    java.util.Random random = new java.util.Random();
    
    /** Initialize your data structure here. */
    public RandomizedSet() {
        list = new ArrayList<Integer> ();
        set = new HashSet<Integer> ();
    }
    
    /** Inserts a value to the set. Returns true if the set did not already contain the specified element. */
    public boolean insert(int val) {
        if(!set.contains(val)){
            set.add(val);
            list.add(val);
            return true;
        }
        else{
            return false;
        }
    }
    
    /** Removes a value from the set. Returns true if the set contained the specified element. */
    public boolean remove(int val) {
        if(!set.contains(val)){
            return false;
        }
        else{
            set.remove(val);
            
            //use iterator to remove desired element, no need to worry about "not last element in list" situation 
            Iterator<Integer> it = list.iterator();
            while(it.hasNext()){
                Integer a = it.next();
                if(a.equals(val)){
                    it.remove();
                }
            }
            
            return true;
        }
    }
    
    /** Get a random element from the set. */
    public int getRandom() {
        return list.get(random.nextInt(list.size()));
    }
    }

       /**
       * Your RandomizedSet object will be instantiated and called as such:
       * RandomizedSet obj = new RandomizedSet();
       * boolean param_1 = obj.insert(val);
       * boolean param_2 = obj.remove(val);
       * int param_3 = obj.getRandom();
       */

if it is not the last element, we need to "swap" last element and current val, and then delete the last element. It is said "swap" but more like overwrite. We use lastone value overwrite loc value and delete lastone value.             

       boolean contain = locs.containsKey(val);
        if ( ! contain ) return false;
        int loc = locs.get(val);
        if (loc < nums.size() - 1 ) { // not the last one than swap the last one with this val
            int lastone = nums.get(nums.size() - 1 );
            nums.set( loc , lastone );
            locs.put(lastone, loc);
        }
        locs.remove(val);
        nums.remove(nums.size() - 1);
        return true;




### Code in Python.   
We just keep track of the index of the added elements, so when we remove them, we copy the last one into it.     

    import random

    class RandomizedSet(object):

    def __init__(self):
        self.nums, self.pos = [], {}
        
    def insert(self, val):
        if val not in self.pos:
            self.nums.append(val)
            self.pos[val] = len(self.nums) - 1
            return True
        return False
        

    def remove(self, val):
        if val in self.pos:
            idx, last = self.pos[val], self.nums[-1]
            self.nums[idx], self.pos[last] = last, idx
            self.nums.pop(); self.pos.pop(val, 0)
            return True
        return False
            
    def getRandom(self):
        return self.nums[random.randint(0, len(self.nums) - 1)]



