---
title: 705. Design HashSet (easy)                        
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Design]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Design a HashSet without using any built-in hash table libraries.      
To be specific, your design should include these functions:     
add(value): Insert a value into the HashSet.     
contains(value) : Return whether the value exists in the HashSet or not.   
remove(value): Remove a value in the HashSet. If the value does not exist in the HashSet, do nothing.    

Example:    
MyHashSet hashSet = new MyHashSet();   
hashSet.add(1);           
hashSet.add(2);           
hashSet.contains(1);    // returns true   
hashSet.contains(3);    // returns false (not found)   
hashSet.add(2);            
hashSet.contains(2);    // returns true   
hashSet.remove(2);            
hashSet.contains(2);    // returns false (already removed)    

Note:   
All values will be in the range of [0, 1000000].    
The number of operations will be in the range of [1, 10000].   
Please do not use the built-in HashSet library.    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
My initial thoughts is creating an int array to store all possible values. In add method, we let value of key be key and check for 0 since initial values are 0; then at remove method, let value of key all be -2.    
I uploaded my solution here on LC website: https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hashset/discuss/297031/My-Java-easy-understandable-int-array-solution-(not-boolean-array)!   
After that, I checked the solution from others, they are using boolean array. Kind of similar to my solution. Using boolen array, initialize the array with little number, and check the length of array and int key, check the arr[key].    
boolean array: https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hashset/discuss/273257/Java-solution-(99.7)   


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
My code with int[]     

       class MyHashSet {

       //private Boolean isExist = false;
       private int[] HS = new int[1000001]; //problem this is if we have 0 in test

       /** Initialize your data structure here. */
       public MyHashSet() {
    
       }

       public void add(int key) {
              HS[key] = key;
    
              //for 0
              if (key == 0){
                     HS[key] = -1;
              }
    
       }
       
       public void remove(int key) {
              HS[key] = -2;
    
       }

       /** Returns true if this set contains the specified element */
       public boolean contains(int key) {
              if(key == 0){
                     if(HS[key] == -1){
                            return true;
                     }
              }
              else{
                     if(HS[key] == key){
                            return true;
                     }
              }

       return false;
       }
      }
  
  Boolean array     
       
    class MyHashSet {
    boolean[] arr = new boolean[100];// start with 100 elements for fast initialization
    /** Initialize your data structure here. */
    public MyHashSet() {
        
    }
    
    public void add(int key) {
        if(key>=arr.length) // if array is too small to accomodate key, extend it.
            extend(key);
        arr[key]=true;
    }
    
    public void remove(int key) {
        if(key>=arr.length) // if array is too small to accomodate key, extend it.
            extend(key);
        arr[key]=false;
    }
    
    /** Returns true if this set contains the specified element */
    public boolean contains(int key) {
        if(key>=arr.length) // key cannot be in array if array's length < key
            return false;
        return arr[key]==true;
    }
    
    public void extend(int key){
        arr= Arrays.copyOf(arr, key+2);  // extend array to one more item than necessary, we need "key" items. 
									     // we give "key+1" items to reduce collisions.
     }
    }


### Code in Python.   
Boolean array   

    class MyHashSet:

    def __init__(self):
        self.arr = [False] * 1000000

    def add(self, key):
        self.arr[key] = True

    def remove(self, key):
        self.arr[key] = False

    def contains(self, key):
        return self.arr[key]

Another solution need to read.   
https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hashset/discuss/210494/Real-Python-Solution-no-cheating-open-addressing

