---
title: 560. Subarray Sum Equals K (medium)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Array]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given an array of integers and an integer k, you need to find the total number of continuous subarrays whose sum equals to k.   

Example 1:    
Input:nums = [1,1,1], k = 2    
Output: 2     

Note:    
The length of the array is in range [1, 20,000].    
The range of numbers in the array is [-1000, 1000] and the range of the integer k is [-1e7, 1e7].     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
Initial idea is brute force, we need two for loops, one for i from 0 to nums.length, another for j from i+1 to nums.length, we then iterate all elements.    
Second idea is that Instead of determining the sum of elements everytime for every new subarray considered, we can make use of a cumulative sum array , sumsum. Then, in order to calculate the sum of elements lying between two indices, we can subtract the cumulative sum corresponding to the two indices to obtain the sum directly, instead of iterating over the subarray to obtain the sum.       
Third idea, use HashMap<sum, # of occurences of sum>. Also use idea of cummulative sum. The idea behind this approach is as follows: If the cumulative sum(repreesnted by sum[i] for sum upto i^th index) upto two indices is the same, the sum of the elements lying in between those indices is zero. Extending the same thought further, if the cumulative sum upto two indices, say i and j is at a difference of k i.e. if sum[i] - sum[j] = k, the sum of elements lying between indices i and j is k. Check for sum - k.          



----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Brute force.    
Time complexity : O(n^3)       
Space complexity : O(1)O(1). Constant space is used.         

      public int subarraySum(int[] nums, int k) {
        //prepare for result
        int result = 0;
        
        //check for extreme condition
        if(nums == null || nums.length == 0){
            return result;
        }
        
        //Brute force
        for(int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++){
            int sum = nums[i];
            if(sum == k){
                result++;
            }
            for(int j = i+1; j < nums.length; j++){
                sum += nums[j];
                if(sum == k){
                    result++;
                }
            }
            
        }
        
        return result;
        
      }

Cummulative sum    

    public int subarraySum(int[] nums, int k) {
        int count = 0;
        int[] sum = new int[nums.length + 1];
        sum[0] = 0;
        for (int i = 1; i <= nums.length; i++)
            sum[i] = sum[i - 1] + nums[i - 1];
        for (int start = 0; start < nums.length; start++) {
            for (int end = start + 1; end <= nums.length; end++) {
                if (sum[end] - sum[start] == k)
                    count++;
            }
        }
        return count;
    }

HashMap<sum, frequence> and check for sum-k.    

    class Solution {
      public int subarraySum(int[] nums, int k) {
        //prepare for result
        int result = 0;
        
        //check for extreme condition
        if(nums == null || nums.length == 0){
            return result;
        }
        
        int sum = 0;
        //HashMap<sum, frequence>
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<> ();
        map.put(0, 1);
        for(int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++){
            sum += nums[i];
            if(map.containsKey(sum - k)){
                result += map.get(sum - k);
            }
            map.put(sum, map.getOrDefault(sum, 0) + 1);
        }
        
        return result;
      }
    }


### Code in Python.   
Let's remember count[V], the number of previous prefix sums with value V. If our newest prefix sum has value W, and W-V == K, then we add count[V] to our answer.     

    def subarraySum(self, A, K):
       count = collections.Counter()
       count[0] = 1
       ans = su = 0
       for x in A:
          su += x
          ans += count[su-K]
          count[su] += 1
       return ans



