---
title: 720. Longest Word in Dictionary (easy) star☆ Necessary to read again for details about the Tire!!                      
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Trie]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given a list of strings words representing an English Dictionary, find the longest word in words that can be built one character at a time by other words in words. If there is more than one possible answer, return the longest word with the smallest lexicographical order.     
If there is no answer, return the empty string.      

Example 1:   
Input:    
words = ["w","wo","wor","worl", "world"]     
Output: "world"  
Explanation:    
The word "world" can be built one character at a time by "w", "wo", "wor", and "worl".   
Example 2:   
Input:    
words = ["a", "banana", "app", "appl", "ap", "apply", "apple"]   
Output: "apple"   
Explanation:    
Both "apply" and "apple" can be built from other words in the dictionary. However, "apple" is lexicographically smaller than "apply".   

Note:    
All the strings in the input will only contain lowercase letters.   
The length of words will be in the range [1, 1000].   
The length of words[i] will be in the range [1, 30].    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
1. Brute Force: Check all string inside word[] if it contains all substring needed. Need two for loops.    
2. Trie 单词查找树 + Depth-First Tree: 
Intuition    
As prefixes of strings are involved, this is usually a natural fit for a trie (a prefix tree.)    
Algorithm    
Put every word in a trie, then depth-first-search from the start of the trie, only searching nodes that ended a word. Every node found (except the root, which is a special case) then represents a word with all it's prefixes present. We take the best such word.    
In Python, we showcase a method using defaultdict, while in Java, we stick to a more general object-oriented approach.     

https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-word-in-dictionary/solution/  


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Brute Force   

    class Solution {
    public String longestWord(String[] words) {
        //Initialize an empty string for result
        String ans = "";
        
        //Check the extreme condition 
        if(words == null || words.length <= 0){
            return ans;
        }
        else if(words.length == 1 && words[0].length() == 0){
            return words[0];
        }
        
        //Brute Force
        
        HashSet<String> wordSet = new HashSet<> ();
        //add element in hashset and there will be no duplicates
        for(String word : words){
            wordSet.add(word);
        }
        
        for(String word : words){
            //word in words[] is longer than ans OR length of word is same to ans and 
            if(word.length() > ans.length() || (word.length() == ans.length() && word.compareTo(ans) < 0) ){
                boolean good = true;
                for(int k = 1; k < word.length(); ++k){
                    if(!wordSet.contains(word.substring(0, k))){
                        good = false;
                        break;
                    }
                }
                if(good == true){
                    ans = word;
                }
            }
            
        }
        
        return ans;
        
     }
    }

Trie + Depth-First Tree.

       



### Code in Python.   



