---
title: 594. Longest Harmonious Subsequence (easy)                 
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
We define a harmonious array is an array where the difference between its maximum value and its minimum value is exactly 1.     
Now, given an integer array, you need to find the length of its longest harmonious subsequence among all its possible subsequences.    
Example 1:   
Input: [1,3,2,2,5,2,3,7]   
Output: 5   
Explanation: The longest harmonious subsequence is [3,2,2,2,3].   
Note: The length of the input array will not exceed 20,000.    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
1. Initialize an int for result   
2. Check extreme condition    
3. sort the int array    
4. Create a HashMap to record each int and its frequence    
5. Initialize two points    
6. Check the sum of frequence of values of two near keys     




----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     

    class Solution {
    public int findLHS(int[] nums) {
        //Initialize an int for result   
        int result = 0;
        
        //check extreme condition
        if(nums.length == 0){
            return 0;
        }
        
        //sort the int[]
        Arrays.sort(nums);
        
        //Create a HashMap to record each int and its frequence
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<> ();
        for(int i : nums){
            map.put(i, map.getOrDefault(i, 0) + 1);
        }
        int mapSize = map.size();
        
        //Initialize two points
        int left = 0, right = 0;
        int sum = 0;
        
        //Check the sum of frequence of two near ints
        for(int key : map.keySet()){
            if(map.containsKey(key + 1)){
                left = map.get(key);
                right = map.get(key + 1);
                int total = 0;
                total = left + right;
            
                if(total > sum){
                    sum = total;
                }
            }
            
        }
        
        return sum;
        
     }
    }

More simple written with similar method.   

    public int findLHS(int[] nums) {
    Map<Long, Integer> map = new HashMap<>();
    for (long num : nums) {
        map.put(num, map.getOrDefault(num, 0) + 1);
    }
    int result = 0;
    for (long key : map.keySet()) {
        if (map.containsKey(key + 1)) {
            result = Math.max(result, map.get(key + 1) + map.get(key));
        }
    }
    return result;
    }



### Code in Python.   

    def findLHS(self, A):
    count = collections.Counter(A)
    ans = 0
    for x in count:
        if x+1 in count:
            ans = max(ans, count[x] + count[x+1])
    return ans


