---
title: 525. Contiguous Array (medium)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given a binary array, find the maximum length of a contiguous subarray with equal number of 0 and 1.    

Example 1:    
Input: [0,1]    
Output: 2    
Explanation: [0, 1] is the longest contiguous subarray with equal number of 0 and 1.     

Example 2:    
Input: [0,1,0]    
Output: 2     
Explanation: [0, 1] (or [1, 0]) is a longest contiguous subarray with equal number of 0 and 1.      

Note: The length of the given binary array will not exceed 50,000.      



----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.       

Key point: 对于求子数组的问题，我们需要时刻记着求累积和是一种很犀利的工具，但是这里怎么将子数组的和跟0和1的个数之间产生联系呢？我们需要用到一个 trick，遇到1就加1，遇到0，就减1，这样如果某个子数组和为0，就说明0和1的个数相等     

I. Brute force. Not allowed since process time limit exceeded. The brute force approach is really simple. We consider every possible subarray within the given array and count the number of zeros and ones in each subarray. Then, we find out the maximum size subarray with equal no. of zeros and ones out of them. X          
II. HashMap<count, place> to record count (add 1 when meet 1, minus 1 when meet 0) and place of the current index.       
III. Using extra array. In this approach, we make use of a countcount variable, which is used to store the relative number of ones and zeros encountered so far while traversing the array.      


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashMap<count, place>.    

    public class Solution {

     public int findMaxLength(int[] nums) {
        Map<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<>();
        map.put(0, -1);
        int maxlen = 0, count = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
            count = count + (nums[i] == 1 ? 1 : -1);
            if (map.containsKey(count)) {
                maxlen = Math.max(maxlen, i - map.get(count));
            } else {
                map.put(count, i);
            }
        }
        return maxlen;
     }
    }


### Code in Python.   




