---
title: 389. Find the Difference (easy)                
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,BitManipulation]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given two strings s and t which consist of only lowercase letters.     
String t is generated by random shuffling string s and then add one more letter at a random position.     
Find the letter that was added in t.     

Example:    
Input:    
s = "abcd"   
t = "abcde"   
Output:   
e  

Explanation:   
'e' is the letter that was added.   

official example is not good, shuffle means original characters of string s will be randomly put in string t:   
s= "abcd"   
t= "decab"    

Find the different character (will at random place of string t) between two string.      


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
Initially, I would like to use HashSet and HashMap to record every elements of shoter string s, and then compare with each element of longer string t. However, HashSet cannot contain duplicates in value, HashMap cannot contain duplicates in key. But there is also a way we store duplicates in value of HashMap and give different key for each of them.    
Secondly, I tried to create a char array list to store every elements of shorter string s, and compare with each element of longer string t. However, it shows IndexOutOfBoundsException error. If anyone know, please contact with me or leave message on my [help page on LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-difference/discuss/289155/Need-help-for-Java-solution-with-arraylist). Thanks!!     
Thirdly, I tried to create a int[] array with size fo 26 (since there are 26 letters) to store frequency/appear times of each character of string s. Then compare with each character of string t, once it shows, minus 1 from frequency of this character; if the frequency is less than 0, it is the one we need.    
After I checked the answer, i found that we can use basic ASCII add/minus for character. I did some modify on [original post](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-difference/discuss/86963/Simple-Java-solution-using-ASCII-sum-in-O(n)). To avoid sum_s or sum_t will be out of range, we need to do subtraction in every for loop. I also commented my modify on that page, too.         
Lastly, we can use Bit Manipulation to solve the problem. We first concat two string, and then ^ for each element. Since ^ for same element will get 0, 0^a will get a.      


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
Code in Java.     

int[] array to store the frequency of each character      

       public char findTheDifference(String s, String t) {
        //char[] charS = s.toCharArray();
        //char[] charT = t.toCharArray();
        
        if(s.length() == 0){
            return t.charAt(0);
        }
        
        //since there are 26 letters
        int[] res = new int[26];
        
        // add 1 for each element in string s
        for(int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++){
            res[s.charAt(i) - 'a']++;
        }
        
        //
        for (int i = 0; i < t.length(); i++){
            
            if(--res[t.charAt(i) - 'a'] < 0){
                return t.charAt(i);
            }
        }
        
        return 0;
        
       }

Basic ASCII sum/difference of character      

       public char findTheDifference(String s, String t) {
        char sum_s = 'a';
	 char sum_t = 'a';
	 int i = 0;
	 for (; i < s.length(); i++) {
            sum_s += s.charAt(i);
            sum_t += t.charAt(i);
            sum_t = sum_t - sum_s;
	 }
	 sum_t += t.charAt(i);
	 return (char) (sum_t);
       }


Bit Manipulation using ^     
       
       public static char findTheDifference(String s, String t){
        char[] chars = s.concat(t).toCharArray();
        char diffChar = 0;
        
        for(char c : chars){
         diffChar ^= c;
        }
        
        return diffChar;
       }



Code in Python.   

Much clearer, sort two string first and compare one by one.   

    def findTheDifference2(s,t):   ## Sort first, then compare, written by my own. seems faster than the first
     s = sorted(s)
     t = sorted(t)
     i = 0
     
     while i < len(s):
        if s[i] != t[i]:
            return t[i]
        else:
            i += 1
     //return last element of array t
     return t[-1]


