---
title: 706. Design HashMap (easy) star☆ Necessary to read again for details about the ListNode!!                      
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Design]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Design a HashMap without using any built-in hash table libraries.     
To be specific, your design should include these functions:      
put(key, value) : Insert a (key, value) pair into the HashMap. If the value already exists in the HashMap, update the value.   
get(key): Returns the value to which the specified key is mapped, or -1 if this map contains no mapping for the key.    
remove(key) : Remove the mapping for the value key if this map contains the mapping for the key.    

Example:    
MyHashMap hashMap = new MyHashMap();   
hashMap.put(1, 1);            
hashMap.put(2, 2);           
hashMap.get(1);            // returns 1  
hashMap.get(3);            // returns -1 (not found)  
hashMap.put(2, 1);          // update the existing value   
hashMap.get(2);            // returns 1    
hashMap.remove(2);          // remove the mapping for 2   
hashMap.get(2);            // returns -1 (not found)     
   
Note:    
All keys and values will be in the range of [0, 1000000].   
The number of operations will be in the range of [1, 10000].   
Please do not use the built-in HashMap library.    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
My initial thought is simple. HashMap is actually HashSet but with value for key. So we can create two arrays, one for boolean array, another for int array. If add one key and value in HashMap, let boolean[key] be true; if remove, let it be false; then in get(), check the boolean[key] true or not.    
my solution on LC: https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hashmap/discuss/297503/Simple-Java-solution-with-one-int-and-one-boolean   






----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
My solution iwth oen int[] and one boolean[].     

    class MyHashMap {

    //Initialize is false
    boolean[] isExist = new boolean[1000001];
    //Initialize a int array
    int[] intArray = new int[1000001];
    
    /** Initialize your data structure here. */
    public MyHashMap() {
        
    }
    
    /** value will always be non-negative. */
    public void put(int key, int value) {
        intArray[key] = value;
        isExist[key] = true;
    }
    
    /** Returns the value to which the specified key is mapped, or -1 if this map contains no mapping for the key */
    public int get(int key) {
        if(isExist[key] == true){
            return intArray[key];
        }
        return -1;
    }
    
    /** Removes the mapping of the specified value key if this map contains a mapping for the key */
    public void remove(int key) {
        intArray[key] = -1;
        isExist[key] = false;
     }
    }

    /**
    * Your MyHashMap object will be instantiated and called as such:
    * MyHashMap obj = new MyHashMap();
    * obj.put(key,value);
    * int param_2 = obj.get(key);
    * obj.remove(key);
    */

LinkedList (ListNode) solution for solving collision.   
https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hashmap/discuss/152746/Java-Solution       

        class MyHashMap {
        final ListNode[] nodes = new ListNode[10000];

        public void put(int key, int value) {
            int i = idx(key);
            if (nodes[i] == null)
                nodes[i] = new ListNode(-1, -1);
            ListNode prev = find(nodes[i], key);
            if (prev.next == null)
                prev.next = new ListNode(key, value);
            else prev.next.val = value;
        }

        public int get(int key) {
            int i = idx(key);
            if (nodes[i] == null)
                return -1;
            ListNode node = find(nodes[i], key);
            return node.next == null ? -1 : node.next.val;
        }

        public void remove(int key) {
            int i = idx(key);
            if (nodes[i] == null) return;
            ListNode prev = find(nodes[i], key);
            if (prev.next == null) return;
            prev.next = prev.next.next;
        }

        int idx(int key) { return Integer.hashCode(key) % nodes.length;}

        ListNode find(ListNode bucket, int key) {
            ListNode node = bucket, prev = null;
            while (node != null && node.key != key) {
                prev = node;
                node = node.next;
            }
            return prev;
        }

        class ListNode {
            int key, val;
            ListNode next;

            ListNode(int key, int val) {
                this.key = key;
                this.val = val;
            }
        }
     }



### Code in Python.   
using just arrays, direct access table.     
using linked list for chaining.    
https://leetcode.com/problems/design-hashmap/discuss/185347/Hash-with-Chaining-Python     

