---
title: 953. Verifying an Alien Dictionary (easy)                 
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
In an alien language, surprisingly they also use english lowercase letters, but possibly in a different order. The order of the alphabet is some permutation of lowercase letters.     
Given a sequence of words written in the alien language, and the order of the alphabet, return true if and only if the given words are sorted lexicographicaly in this alien language.     

Example 1:     
Input: words = ["hello","leetcode"], order = "hlabcdefgijkmnopqrstuvwxyz"     
Output: true     
Explanation: As 'h' comes before 'l' in this language, then the sequence is sorted.    
Example 2:    
Input: words = ["word","world","row"], order = "worldabcefghijkmnpqstuvxyz"    
Output: false    
Explanation: As 'd' comes after 'l' in this language, then words[0] > words[1], hence the sequence is unsorted.    
Example 3:     
Input: words = ["apple","app"], order = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"    
Output: false     
Explanation: The first three characters "app" match, and the second string is shorter (in size.) According to lexicographical rules "apple" > "app", because 'l' > '∅', where '∅' is defined as the blank character which is less than any other character (More info).    

Note:    
1 <= words.length <= 100   
1 <= words[i].length <= 20   
order.length == 26    
All characters in words[i] and order are english lowercase letters      


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
Biggest difficulty is dictionary sort. 12345 > 1289 > 131 > 501 > 580 > 987.         
https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%AD%97%E5%85%B8%E5%BA%8F/7786229?fr=aladdin     







----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     



### Code in Python.   



