---
title: 83. Remove Duplicates from Sorted List (easy)                   
author: zhou      
tags: [Linked List]            
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    

Given a sorted linked list, delete all duplicates such that each element appear only once.       

Example 1:     
Input: 1->1->2    
Output: 1->2    

Example 2:     
Input: 1->1->2->3->3    
Output: 1->2->3     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        

This is a simple problem that merely tests your ability to manipulate list node pointers. Because the input list is sorted, we can determine if a node is a duplicate by comparing its value to the node after it in the list. If it is a duplicate, we change the next pointer of the current node so that it skips the next node and points directly to the one after the next node.       
The pointer "head" should not be moved or updated directly, because it points to the head of the list and you need to return this head at the end. There's a temporary pointer "list" points to head at the beginning, so you can consider "list" as a new "head" pointer. All operations should be done by using "list" to prevent losing head.      
<b> why return head instead of current </b>    
It's because you need to return the start of the list. If you return the current you'll only be given the last node with which you cannot look at previous nodes. With this LL implementation we can only look at next nodes, so it makes sense that we need to return the very first element to have access to the entire list.     


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Straight=forward    

    public ListNode deleteDuplicates(ListNode head) {
       ListNode current = head; 
       //you always need a pointer to point at the head of the list, otherwise the whole list will be lost. 
       //This is the reason why you need to create a temporary pointer to traverse through the list.
       
       while (current != null && current.next != null) {
          if (current.next.val == current.val) {
            current.next = current.next.next;
          } else {
            current = current.next;
          }
       }
       
       return head;
     }


### Code in Python.   
Similar idea1

    class Solution(object):
      def deleteDuplicates(self, head):
        """
        :type head: ListNode
        :rtype: ListNode
        """
        if head == None:
            return head
        
        current = head.next
        prev = head
        
        while current != None:
            if current.val == prev.val:
                prev.next = current.next
                current = current.next
            else:
                current = current.next
                prev = prev.next
        
        return head



