---
title: 748. Shortest Completing Word (easy)                 
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Find the minimum length word from a given dictionary words, which has all the letters from the string licensePlate. Such a word is said to complete the given string licensePlate         
Here, for letters we ignore case. For example, "P" on the licensePlate still matches "p" on the word.      
It is guaranteed an answer exists. If there are multiple answers, return the one that occurs first in the array.      
The license plate might have the same letter occurring multiple times. For example, given a licensePlate of "PP", the word "pair" does not complete the licensePlate, but the word "supper" does.      

Example 1:     
Input: licensePlate = "1s3 PSt", words = ["step", "steps", "stripe", "stepple"]    
Output: "steps"    
Explanation: The smallest length word that contains the letters "S", "P", "S", and "T".    
Note that the answer is not "step", because the letter "s" must occur in the word twice.    
Also note that we ignored case for the purposes of comparing whether a letter exists in the word.    
Example 2:     
Input: licensePlate = "1s3 456", words = ["looks", "pest", "stew", "show"]    
Output: "pest"    
Explanation: There are 3 smallest length words that contains the letters "s".    
We return the one that occurred first.    
Note:    
licensePlate will be a string with length in range [1, 7].    
licensePlate will contain digits, spaces, or letters (uppercase or lowercase).    
words will have a length in the range [10, 1000].    
Every words[i] will consist of lowercase letters, and have length in range [1, 15].     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
1. Using one HashMap to store all characters of string and its frequence; using another HashMap to store every character and its frequence of every string in the words[]. Check the length of word and frequence of character is 0 or not; then check the map.size().   
2. Assign each character of licensePlate string a prime number (one of 26 numbers for 26 letters) and compute the product. Then assign prime number to characterof word in words[] and get the product of each. Check the length and product(word) % product(licensePlate) is 0 or not.      


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Two HashMap.     

    class solution{       
        public String shortestCompletingWord(String licensePlate, String[] words) {
        //Prepare a string for result
        String result = "";
        
        //Check extreme condition   
        char[] licenseArray = licensePlate.toLowerCase().toCharArray();
        if(licensePlate.length() == 1 && Character.isLetter(licenseArray[0]) == false){
            return result;
        }
        
        //Create a HashMap to store elements in licensePlate string
        HashMap<Character, Integer> map = new HashMap<>();
        for (char c : licenseArray){
            if((c - 'a') >= 0 && (c - 'z') <= 0){  //
                int val = map.getOrDefault(c, 0) + 1;
                map.put(c, val);
            }
        }
        
        //Check every character of every string in words[]
        int minLen = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
        for(String word : words){
            if(word.length() < minLen){
                //for every word, we need same map
                HashMap<Character, Integer> charMap = (HashMap<Character, Integer>)map.clone();  //deep clone form map   
                for(char c : word.toCharArray()){
                  int newVal = charMap.getOrDefault(c, 0) -1;
                    //this character is 0, remove
                    if(newVal == 0){
                        charMap.remove(c);
                    }
                    //if it is not 0, update its frequence
                    else if(newVal > 0){
                        charMap.put(c, newVal);
                        
                    }
                }
                if(charMap.size() == 0){
                    minLen = word.length();
                    result = word;
                }
                
            }
        }
        
        return result;
       }
     }

Assign prime numbers    

    class Solution {
     //products of prime numbers
     //prepare for 26 prime numbers 
     private static final int[] primes = {2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37, 41, 43, 47, 53, 59, 61, 67, 71, 73, 79, 83, 89, 97, 101, 103}; 
    
     public String shortestCompletingWord(String licensePlate, String[] words) {
        //Prepare a string for result
        String result = "";
        
        //Check extreme condition   
        char[] licenseArray = licensePlate.toLowerCase().toCharArray();
        if(licensePlate.length() == 1 && Character.isLetter(licenseArray[0]) == false){
            return result;
        }
        
        //get the product for all letter characters of lower-case string
        long charProduct = getCharProduct(licensePlate.toLowerCase());
        result = "aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa"; //16 a's
        for (String word : words){
            if(word.length() < result.length() && getCharProduct(word) % charProduct == 0){
                result = word;
            }
        }
        
        return result;
        
     }
    
     private long getCharProduct(String plate){
        long product = 1L;  //1L means long 1
        for(char c : plate.toCharArray()){
            int index = c - 'a';
            if(index >= 0 && index <= 25){
                product *= primes[index];
            }
        }
        return product;
     }
    }



### Code in Python.   

    class Solution:
    def shortestCompletingWord(self, lp, words):
        cntr_lp, res = collections.defaultdict(int), None
        for char in lp:
            if char.isalpha(): 
                cntr_lp[char.lower()] += 1
        for word in words:
            check = dict(cntr_lp)
            for char in word:
                char = char.lower()
                if char in check:
                    check[char] -= 1
                    if not check[char]: 
                        del check[char]
            if not check and (not res or len(word) < len(res)): 
                res = word
        return res


