---
title: 409. Longest Palindrome (easy)                
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given a string which consists of lowercase or uppercase letters, find the length of the longest palindromes that can be built with those letters.     
This is case sensitive, for example "Aa" is not considered a palindrome here.    

Note:    
Assume the length of given string will not exceed 1,010.     
Example:   
Input:   
"abccccdd"    
Output:   
7   
Explanation:   
One longest palindrome that can be built is "dccaccd", whose length is 7.     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
My initial thought is creating an int[] array that the size will be 256 for covering all letters and symbols since lower and upper letters here are sensitive. In the first loop, if any element appears twice, we let frequency of this element be 0 and record once; at the end, we times this record twice since there are two elements. Then in second loop, we check the frequency of each element whether exists once or not, if so, add 1 at the end.    
Second, we can use HashSet. We can remove element directly in HashSet when it appears twice, and it also avoid the situation we have to add twice in HashSet which is not allowed.    







----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     

ASCII for covering all letters.    

       public int longestPalindrome(String s) {
        int[] freq = new int[256];
        int res = 0;
    
        char[] chars = s.toCharArray();
    
        for(char c : chars){
            freq[c]++;
        
            if((freq[c] / 2) == 1 && freq[c] > 0){
                freq[c] = 0;
                res += 1;
            }
              
        }
    
        //length of palindrome should be twice
        res *= 2;
        
        boolean ad = false;
        
        for (char c : chars){
            if(freq[c] == 1){
                ad = true;
            }
        }
        
        if(ad == true){
            res += 1;
        }
    
        return res;
    }




### Code in Python.   



