---
title: 242. Valid Anagram (easy)               
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable, Sort]         
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.       
Given two strings s and t , write a function to determine if t is an anagram (相同字母异序词) of s.      
Example 1:       
Input: s = "anagram", t = "nagaram"   
Output: true   
Example 2:   
Input: s = "rat", t = "car"   
Output: false    
Note:   
You may assume the string contains only lowercase alphabets.    
Follow up:    
What if the inputs contain unicode characters? How would you adapt your solution to such case?    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
First, check the length of string1 s and string2 t, whether they are same or not, if same, continue, otherwise, return false. Convert string to charArray() then we can compare one character by one character. Sort the arrays and compare between them.    
Second, we can use HashTable to 







----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
Code in Java.     

Sorting.   

       class Solution {
       public boolean isAnagram(String s, String t) {
        if (s.length() != t.length()) {
            return false;
        }
    
        char[] str1 = s.toCharArray();
        char[] str2 = t.toCharArray();
        Arrays.sort(str1);
        Arrays.sort(str2);
        
        return Arrays.equals(str1, str2);
        
        }
       }

HashTable   

       public boolean isAnagram(String s, String t) {
              if (s.length() != t.length()) {
                     return false;
              }
              int[] counter = new int[26];  //26 lower case letter
              for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++) {
                     counter[s.charAt(i) - 'a']++;  // - 'a' is because that a in ASCII code is 26, we only set 26 places in counter[]
                     //if we would like convenience, no need to minus 'a', we can set size of counter[] 126 
                     counter[t.charAt(i) - 'a']--;
              }
              for (int count : counter) {
                     if (count != 0) {
                            return false;
                     }
              }
              return true;
       }




