---
title: 101. Symmetric Tree (Easy)                   
author: zhou      
tags: [Tree, Depth-first Search, Breadth-first Search]            
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    

Given a binary tree, check whether it is a mirror of itself (ie, symmetric around its center).     

For example, this binary tree [1,2,2,3,4,4,3] is symmetric:    

    1    
   / \   
  2   2   
 / \ / \   
3  4 4  3     
   

But the following [1,2,2,null,3,null,3] is not:     

    1    
   / \    
  2   2    
   \   \    
   3    3    
 

Note:    
Bonus points if you could solve it both recursively and iteratively.     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        

Two trees are a mirror reflection of each other if:    
I. Their two roots have the same value.     
II. The right subtree of each tree is a mirror reflection of the left subtree of the other tree.     

1) Recursion     
This is like a person looking at a mirror. The reflection in the mirror has the same head, but the reflection's right arm corresponds to the actual person's left arm, and vice versa.     

2) Iterative    
Instead of recursion, we can also use iteration with the aid of a queue. Each two consecutive nodes in the queue should be equal, and their subtrees a mirror of each other. Initially, the queue contains root and root. Then the algorithm works similarly to BFS, with some key differences. Each time, two nodes are extracted and their values compared. Then, the right and left children of the two nodes are inserted in the queue in opposite order. The algorithm is done when either the queue is empty, or we detect that the tree is not symmetric (i.e. we pull out two consecutive nodes from the queue that are unequal).      



----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Recursion    

    class Solution {
      //recursion
      public boolean isSymmetric(TreeNode root) {
        return isMirror(root, root);
      }
    
      public boolean isMirror(TreeNode t1, TreeNode t2){
        if(t1 == null && t2 == null){
            return true;
        }
        if(t1 == null || t2 == null){
            return false;
        }
        return isMirror(t1.val == t2.val)
            && isMirror(t1.left, t2.right)
            && isMirror(t1.right, t2.left);
      }
    }

Iterative    

    public boolean isSymmetric(TreeNode root) {
        //Iterative   
        Queue<TreeNode> q = new LinkedList<> ();
        q.add(root);
        q.add(root);
        
        while(!q.isEmpty()){
            TreeNode t1 = q.poll();
            TreeNode t2 = q.poll();
            
            if(t1 == null && t2 == null){
                continue;
            }
            if(t1 == null || t2 == null){
                return false;
            }
            if(t1.val != t2.val){
                return false;
            }
            
            q.add(t1.left);
            q.add(t2.right);
            
            q.add(t1.right);
            q.add(t2.left);
            
        }
        
        return true;
    }
       


### Code in Python.   
Recursive   

    class Solution:
    def isSymmetric(self, root):
      if root is None:
        return True
      else:
        return self.isMirror(root.left, root.right)

    def isMirror(self, left, right):
      if left is None and right is None:
        return True
      if left is None or right is None:
        return False

      if left.val == right.val:
        outPair = self.isMirror(left.left, right.right)
        inPiar = self.isMirror(left.right, right.left)
        return outPair and inPiar
      else:
        return False



