---
title: 690. Employee Importance (easy)                 
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Depth-first Search,Breadth-fist Search]          
---



## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
You are given a data structure of employee information, which includes the employee's unique id, his importance value and his <b> direct </b> subordinates' id.    
For example, employee 1 is the leader of employee 2, and employee 2 is the leader of employee 3. They have importance value 15, 10 and 5, respectively. Then employee 1 has a data structure like [1, 15, [2]], and employee 2 has [2, 10, [3]], and employee 3 has [3, 5, []]. Note that although employee 3 is also a subordinate of employee 1, the relationship is not direct.     
Now given the employee information of a company, and an employee id, you need to return the total importance value of this employee and all his subordinates.     

Example 1:    
Input: [[1, 5, [2, 3]], [2, 3, []], [3, 3, []]], 1    
Output: 11   
Explanation:    
Employee 1 has importance value 5, and he has two direct subordinates: employee 2 and employee 3. They both have importance value 3. So the total importance value of employee 1 is 5 + 3 + 3 = 11.     
 
Note:    
One employee has at most one direct leader and may have several subordinates.    
The maximum number of employees won't exceed 2000.     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
At first, I thought it would be a super fussy problem since we need to get index for list. However, when I see the discussion, I found that Employee is actually a class in this question, it has attributes for id, importance and subordinates.         
Let's use a hashmap emap = {employee.id -> employee} to query employees quickly.     
Now to find the total importance of an employee, it will be the importance of that employee, plus the total importance of each of that employee's subordinates. This is a straightforward depth-first search.       
We can also use HashMap with Breadth-First search.     
Difference here is that DFS: Find important value of all subid in for loop in dfs(); BFS: while add e.id to queue, while add subid.important value to result.     


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashMap with Depth-First Search.     

    /*
    // Employee info
    class Employee {
     // It's the unique id of each node;
     // unique id of this employee
     public int id;
     // the importance value of this employee
     public int importance;
     // the id of direct subordinates
     public List<Integer> subordinates;
    };
    */
    
    class Solution {
    
    //Crate a HashMap for employee and employee.id
    HashMap<Integer, Employee> map = new HashMap<> ();
    
    public int getImportance(List<Employee> employees, int id) {
        //Add information for all employees
        for(Employee e : employees){
            map.put(e.id, e);
        }
        
        return dfs(id);
    }
    
    //DFS
    public int dfs(int eid){
        Employee employee = map.get(eid);
        int result = employee.importance;
        
        for(Integer subid : employee.subordinates){
            result += dfs(subid);
        }
        return result;
     }
    
    
    }
 
 HashMap with Breadth-First search.     
 
    public int getImportance(List<Employee> employees, int id) {
        int total = 0;
        Map<Integer, Employee> map = new HashMap<>();
        for (Employee employee : employees) {
            map.put(employee.id, employee);
        }
        Queue<Employee> queue = new LinkedList<>();
        queue.offer(map.get(id));  //add an element at the head and return true   
        while (!queue.isEmpty()) {
            Employee current = queue.poll();  //remove and return the element at head of the queue
            total += current.importance;
            for (int subordinate : current.subordinates) {
                queue.offer(map.get(subordinate));
            }
        }
        return total;
    }
    
    


### Code in Python.   



