---
title: 1072. Flip Columns For Maximum Number of Equal Rows (medium)                   
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]            
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    

Given a matrix consisting of 0s and 1s, we may choose any number of columns in the matrix and flip every cell in that column.  Flipping a cell changes the value of that cell from 0 to 1 or from 1 to 0.     
Return the maximum number of rows that have all values equal after some number of flips.     

Example 1:     
Input: [[0,1],[1,1]]    
Output: 1    
Explanation: After flipping no values, 1 row has all values equal.     

Example 2:    
Input: [[0,1],[1,0]]    
Output: 2    
Explanation: After flipping values in the first column, both rows have equal values.     

Example 3:    
Input: [[0,0,0],[0,0,1],[1,1,0]]   
Output: 2    
Explanation: After flipping values in the first two columns, the last two rows have equal values.     

Note:    
1 <= matrix.length <= 300   
1 <= matrix[i].length <= 300    
All matrix[i].length's are equal    
matrix[i][j] is 0 or 1     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        

I. Understand the question    
Assume the i-th row is an all-0s row after flipping x columns.    
If there are any other all-0s row, say j-th row, then the j-th row before flipping should be the same as the i-th row.    
If there are any other all-1s row, say k-th row, then the k-th row before flipping should be totally different from the i-th row.     

For example:     
 [1,0,0,1,0]                                         [0,0,0,0,0]  // all-0s   
 [1,0,0,1,0]  after flipping 0-th and 4-th columns   [0,0,0,0,0]  // all-0s   
 [1,0,1,1,1] ----------------------------------->    [0,0,1,0,1]   
 [0,1,1,0,1]                                         [1,1,1,1,1]  // all-1s    
 [1,0,0,1,1]                                         [0,0,0,0,1]     
1st, 2nd, and 4th rows have all values equal.      

After flipping, the 1st and 2nd rows are all-0s, and the 4th row are all-1s. We can find that before flipping:    
the 2nd row is the same as the 1st row.    
the 4th row is totally different from the 1st row.      

So, the problem is transformed to: <b> Find the i-th row, which has the most same or totaly different rows in the matrix. </b>           






----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
Understand the question    

    public int maxEqualRowsAfterFlips(int[][] matrix) {
        //prepare for final result
        int ans = 0;
        
        //check for extreme condition
        if(matrix == null){
            return ans;
        }
        
        int n = matrix.length, m = matrix[0].length;
        int[] flip = new int[m];
        
        for(int i = 0; i < n; ++i){
            int cnt = 0;
            for(int j = 0; j < m; ++j){
                flip[j] = 1 - matrix[i][j]; //get the reverse value    
            }
            
            for(int k = 0; k < n; ++k){
                if(Arrays.equals(matrix[k], matrix[i]) || Arrays.equals(matrix[k], flip) ){
                    cnt++;
                }
            }
            
            ans = Math.max(ans, cnt);
        }
        
        return ans;
    }


### Code in Python.   




