---
title: 290. Word Pattern (easy)                
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]         
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given a pattern and a string str, find if str follows the same pattern.    
Here follow means a full match, such that there is a bijection between a letter in pattern and a non-empty word in str.    
Example 1:   
Input: pattern = "abba", str = "dog cat cat dog"   
Output: true   
Example 2:   
Input:pattern = "abba", str = "dog cat cat fish"   
Output: false   
Example 3:   
Input: pattern = "aaaa", str = "dog cat cat dog"   
Output: false   
Example 4:   
Input: pattern = "abba", str = "dog dog dog dog"   
Output: false   
Notes:    
You may assume pattern contains only lowercase letters, and str contains lowercase letters that may be separated by a single space.   


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
Convert str to string array with split(" "), create a hashMap, add each character of pattern string and each string of split string array, compare each of their previous mapping values of these two keys.     


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
Code in Java.     

Use one HashMap tp compare with character of pattern string and each string in the string array.   

       class Solution {
       public boolean wordPattern(String pattern, String str) {
        //check the length of pattern string and split string array
        String[] strSplit = str.split(" ");
        if(pattern.length() != strSplit.length){
            return false;
        }
        
        HashMap HM = new HashMap ();
        
        //use Integer when we need it in collection, like use put method in map   
        for(Integer i = 0; i < strSplit.length; i++){
            if(HM.put(pattern.charAt(i), i) != HM.put(strSplit[i], i)){  //map.put() returns the previous value which is previous i
                return false;
            }
        }
               
        return true;
        
        }
       }


Code in Python    

       class Solution(object):
              def wordPattern(self, pattern, str):
              """
              :type pattern: str
              :type str: str
              :rtype: bool
              """
              return [pattern.index(c) for c in pattern] == [str.split(" ").index(c) for c in str.split(" ")]
        

