---
title: 61. Rotate List (medium)                   
author: zhou      
tags: [Linked List, Two Pointers]            
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.      
Given a linked list, rotate the list to the right by k places, where k is non-negative.     

Example 1:     
Input: 1->2->3->4->5->NULL, k = 2    
Output: 4->5->1->2->3->NULL   
Explanation:   
rotate 1 steps to the right: 5->1->2->3->4->NULL    
rotate 2 steps to the right: 4->5->1->2->3->NULL    

Example 2:     
Input: 0->1->2->NULL, k = 4   
Output: 2->0->1->NULL    
Explanation:    
rotate 1 steps to the right: 2->0->1->NULL   
rotate 2 steps to the right: 1->2->0->NULL   
rotate 3 steps to the right: 0->1->2->NULL    
rotate 4 steps to the right: 2->0->1->NULL    


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        

I. Find (l - n%l) th node         
Since n may be a large number compared to the length of list. So we need to know the length of linked list.After that, move the list after the (l-n%l )th node to the front to finish the rotation.        
Ex: {1,2,3} k=2 Move the list after the 1st node to the front    
Ex: {1,2,3} k=5, In this case Move the list after (3-5%3=1)st node to the front.     

So the code has three parts.      
1) Get the length     
2) Move to the (l-n%l)th node     
3) Do the rotation      

II. Convert into circle      
The basic idea is to connect the list into a circle. First, count the length of list while going through the list to find the end of it. Connect the tail to head. The problem asked to rotate k nodes, however, now the tail is at the end of the list and its difficult to move backward, so move (k - len) nodes along the list instead. "k = k % len" saves the unnecessary moves because rotate a list with length = len by len times doesn't change the list at all.      




----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
I. Find (l - n%l) th node            
With dummy node    

    public ListNode rotateRight(ListNode head, int n) {
        if (head==null||head.next==null) return head;
        
        ListNode dummy=new ListNode(0);
        dummy.next=head;
        ListNode fast=dummy,slow=dummy;

        int i;
        for (i=0; fast.next!=null; i++)//Get the total length 
    	    fast=fast.next;
    
        //Move to the (l-n%l)th node
        for (int j=i-n%i; j>0; j--) //Get the i-n%i th node
    	    slow=slow.next;
    
        fast.next=dummy.next; //Do the rotation
        dummy.next=slow.next;
        slow.next=null;
    
        return dummy.next;
    }

Without dummy node = use int size to record length       

    public static ListNode rotateRight(ListNode head, int k) {
	if(head==null)
        return null;
	int size = 1; // since we are already at head node
	ListNode fast=head;
	ListNode slow = head;
	
	while(fast.next!=null){
	    size++;
	    fast = fast.next;
	}
	
	for(int i=size-k%size;i>1;i--) // i>1 because we need to put slow.next at the start.
		slow = slow.next;
	
       // No dummy variable.
	fast.next = head;
	head = slow.next;
	slow.next = null;
	
	return head;
    }

II. Convert into circle    

     ListNode *rotateRight(ListNode *head, int k) {
        if (head == NULL || head->next == NULL || k == 0) return head;
        int len = 1;
        ListNode *tail = head;

        /* find the end of list */
        while (tail->next != NULL) {
            tail = tail->next;
            len++;
        }

        /* form a circle */
        tail->next = head;
        k = k % len;
        for (int i = 0; i < len - k; i++) {
            tail = tail->next;
        }
        head = tail->next;
        tail->next = NULL;
        return head;
    }



### Code in Python.   


    class Solution(object):
    def rotateRight(self, head, k):
       """
       :type head: ListNode
       :type k: int
       :rtype: ListNode
       """
       
       if not head:
          return None
    
       if head.next == None:
          return head
        
       pointer = head
       length = 1
    
       while pointer.next:
          pointer = pointer.next
          length += 1
    
       rotateTimes = k%length
    
       if k == 0 or rotateTimes == 0:
          return head
    
       fastPointer = head
       slowPointer = head
    
       for a in range (rotateTimes):
          fastPointer = fastPointer.next
    
       while fastPointer.next:
          slowPointer = slowPointer.next
          fastPointer = fastPointer.next
    
       temp = slowPointer.next
    
       slowPointer.next = None
       fastPointer.next = head
       head = temp
    
       return head



