---
title: 438. Find All Anagrams in a String (easy)                       
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable]          
---


#### template for substring search problem
       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)
+ [Template for the Leetcode substring search problem](#partIV)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.      
Given a string s and a non-empty string p, find all the start indices of p's anagrams in s.     
Strings consists of lowercase English letters only and the length of both strings s and p will not be larger than 20,100.     
The order of output does not matter.    

Example 1:    
Input:   
s: "cbaebabacd" p: "abc"   
Output:   
[0, 6]   
Explanation:   
The substring with start index = 0 is "cba", which is an anagram of "abc".   
The substring with start index = 6 is "bac", which is an anagram of "abc".   

Example 2:    
Input:   
s: "abab" p: "ab"    
Output:   
[0, 1, 2]    
Explanation:   
The substring with start index = 0 is "ab", which is an anagram of "ab".   
The substring with start index = 1 is "ba", which is an anagram of "ab".   
The substring with start index = 2 is "ab", which is an anagram of "ab".   


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
Two pointers for solving substring search problem with sliding window algorithm template.     
longer source string s, target substring t.     
1. Initialize a collection or int value (linked list) to save the result according the question; check the length of t and s.       
2. Create a hashmap to save the characters of the target substring. HashMap<Character, Integer> = (Character, frequence of the characters). Maintain a counter (HashMap.size()) to check whether match the target string.             
3. Two pointers: begin - left pointer of the window; end - right pointer of the window    
4. <b>loop </b> at the begining of the source string s, get a character c for end pointer of s, check whether the key of hashMap contains c or not: if so, use hashMap.put() to minus 1 from the frequence of c until the frequence of each element in hashmap is 0, minus 1 from counter. And move end pointer to next.      
Then still in the loop, once counter equals 0, we use a loop to increase begin pointer to make counter valid again. And move begin to next.     
5. At the last, return the result list.      


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     

       class Solution {
       public List<Integer> findAnagrams(String s, String t) {
         //create the linked list for result use and try to avoid extreme condition that s less than t
         List<Integer> result = new LinkedList<> ();
         if(s.length() < t.length()){
            return result;
         }
        
         //create a hashmap<character, frequency of character> for storing elements of string t
         Map<Character, Integer> map = new HashMap<> ();
         for (char c : t.toCharArray()){
            map.put(c, map.getOrDefault(c, 0)+1);
         }
         int counter = map.size(); //use size of map to avoid duplicates
        
         //Two pointers, begin for left, end for right
         //end pointer to check whether in the s, there contains enough characters of map
         //begin pointer to check whether map contains begin element and 
         //the length of (end - begin) equals to length of string t
         int begin = 0, end = 0;
        
         while(end < s.length()){
            char c = s.charAt(end);
            if(map.containsKey(c)){
                map.put(c, map.get(c)-1); //frequency of char c minus 1
                if(map.get(c) == 0){  //removed all of this element of the map of t
                    counter--;
                }
             }
             end++; //end move to next
            
             while(counter == 0){
                char tempc = s.charAt(begin);
                //check whether tempc is the element of map of string t
                if(map.containsKey(tempc)){
                    map.put(tempc, map.get(tempc)+1);
                    if(map.get(tempc) > 0){
                        counter++;
                    }
                }
                
                if((end - begin) == t.length()){
                    result.add(begin);
                }
                
                begin++;
             }
            
         }
        
        return result;
        
        }
       }



### Code in Python.   
[python Sliding Window Solution using Counter](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-all-anagrams-in-a-string/discuss/92009/Python-Sliding-Window-Solution-using-Counter)     




## Template for the Leetcode substring search problem     
I concluded a template for suvstring search problems by Sliding Window algorithm with 5 substring search problem.   
[Link here](https://github.com/zhou-1/Personal-Blog/blob/master/_posts/HashTableThinking/substringSearchBylidingWindowAlgorithm.md)    


