---
title: 676. Implement Magic Dictionary (medium)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Trie]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Implement a magic directory with buildDict, and search methods.      
For the method buildDict, you'll be given a list of non-repetitive words to build a dictionary.      
For the method search, you'll be given a word, and judge whether if you modify exactly one character into another character in this word, the modified word is in the dictionary you just built.    

Example 1:   
Input: buildDict(["hello", "leetcode"]), Output: Null   
Input: search("hello"), Output: False  
Input: search("hhllo"), Output: True   
Input: search("hell"), Output: False   
Input: search("leetcoded"), Output: False     

Note:    
You may assume that all the inputs are consist of lowercase letters a-z.     
For contest purpose, the test data is rather small by now. You could think about highly efficient algorithm after the contest.    
Please remember to RESET your class variables declared in class MagicDictionary, as static/class variables are persisted across multiple test cases. Please see here for more details.       



----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
I. Brute force with bucket-by-length in HashMap<word.length, ArrayList<word String>>. Call two strings neighbors if exactly one character can be changed in one to make the strings equal (ie. their hamming distance is 1.). Strings can only be neighbors if their lengths are equal. When searching a new word, let's check only the words that are the same length.       





----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
I. Brute force with bucket-by-length in HashMap<word.length, ArrayList<word String>>.       
Time Complexity: O(S)O(S) to build and O(NK)O(NK) to search, where NN is the number of words in our magic dictionary, SS is the total number of letters in it, and KK is the length of the search word.       
Space Complexity: O(S)O(S), the space used by buckets.            

    class MagicDictionary {
      //Create a HashMap for buckets
      HashMap<Integer, ArrayList<String>> buckets;

      /** Initialize your data structure here. */
      public MagicDictionary() {
        buckets = new HashMap<> ();    
      }
    
      /** Build a dictionary through a list of words */
      public void buildDict(String[] dict) {
        for(String word : dict){
            buckets.computeIfAbsent(word.length(), x -> new ArrayList()).add(word);
            //key: word.length()
            //computeIfAbsent(K key, Function<? super K,? extends V> mappingFunction)
            
            //Or we can use below code written by myself
            for(String word : dict){
              int len = word.length();
              if(map.get(len) == null){
                map.put(len, new ArrayList());
                map.get(len).add(word);
              }
              else{
                map.get(len).add(word);
              }
               
              //however, we cannot use below code
              //since map.getOrDefault() is a boolean type, we cannot add directly.
              //map.put(len, map.getOrDefault(len, new ArrayList()).add(word) );
            
          }
      }
    
      /** Returns if there is any word in the trie that equals to the given word after modifying exactly one character */
      public boolean search(String word) {
        //only accept modify, not add/delete word
        if(!buckets.containsKey(word.length())){
            return false;
        }
        //for every string
        for(String candidate : buckets.get(word.length())){
            int mismatch = 0;
            //for every character
            for(int i = 0; i < word.length(); ++i){
                if(word.charAt(i) != candidate.charAt(i)){
                    if(++mismatch > 1){
                        break;
                    }
                }
            }
            if(mismatch == 1){
                return true;
            }
          }
        
          return false;
        }
      }

       /**
       * Your MagicDictionary object will be instantiated and called as such:
        * MagicDictionary obj = new MagicDictionary();
       * obj.buildDict(dict);
       * boolean param_2 = obj.search(word);
       */






### Code in Python.   




