---
title: 347. Top K Frequent Elements (medium)                  
author: zhou      
tags: [HashTable,Heap]          
---

       

## Catalog  
+ [Question Description](#partI)
+ [My Thoughts](#partII)
+ [Code Exhibition](#partIII)

----------------------------------

## Question Description
Clear language for describing question.    
Given a non-empty array of integers, return the k most frequent elements.    

Example 1:   
Input: nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3], k = 2   
Output: [1,2]   
Example 2:   
Input: nums = [1], k = 1   
Output: [1]    
Note:   
You may assume k is always valid, 1 ≤ k ≤ number of unique elements.   
Your algorithm's time complexity must be better than O(n log n), where n is the array's size.     


----------------------------------

## My Thoughts
My thoughts for solving question after thinking and checking others' solving methods.        
1. Idea is simple. Build a array of list to be buckets with length 1 to sort. First, build HashMap for each element and its frequence; second, for each key, add this key in related bucket[frequence]; third, from end to begin (from bucket.length - 1 to 0 and result.size(0 less than k), we addAll() the bucket[i].      
https://leetcode.com/problems/top-k-frequent-elements/discuss/81602/Java-O(n)-Solution-Bucket-Sort     
2. Use Heap which is using for <b> finding minimum/maximum value in a collection. </b> 


----------------------------------

## Code Exhibition
Talk is cheap, show me the code.    
### Code in Java.     
HashMap for recording each element and its frequence and then use bucket sort.    

    public List<Integer> topKFrequent(int[] nums, int k) {
        //prepare for result
        List<Integer> result = new ArrayList();
        
        //check for extreme condition
        if(nums == null ){
            return result;
        }
        //this will cause wrror, this check will not pass in test case [1], k = 1
        //else if( nums.length == 1 && k == 1){
        //    return new ArrayList(nums[0]);
        //}
        
        //create a HashMap<value, frequence>
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<> ();
        for(int i : nums){
            map.put(i, map.getOrDefault(i, 0) + 1);
        }
        
        //create an array list for buckets
        List<Integer>[] bucket = new List[nums.length + 1];
        
        //bucket, we add key in related frequency
        for(int key : map.keySet()){
            //get the frequency of the map
            int frequency = map.get(key);
            if(bucket[frequency] == null){
                bucket[frequency] = new ArrayList<> ();
            }
            
            //in this frequency, we add the related key
            bucket[frequency].add(key);
        }
        
        //iterate for all elements, frequency more bigger, it is in latter place.
        for(int pos = bucket.length - 1; pos >= 0 && result.size() < k; pos--){
            if(bucket[pos] != null){
                result.addAll(bucket[pos]);  
                //如果有多个已经被实例化的List 集合，想要把他们组合成一个整体，并且，这里必须直接使用List 自身提供的一个方法List.addAll()    
                
            }
        }
        
        return result;
        
    }

Heap    

       public List<Integer> topKFrequent(int[] nums, int k) {
        //prepare for result
        List<Integer> result = new ArrayList();
        
        //check for extreme condition
        if(nums == null ){
            return result;
        }
        //this will cause wrror, this check will not pass in test case [1], k = 1
        //else if( nums.length == 1 && k == 1){
        //    return new ArrayList(nums[0]);
        //}
        
        //create a HashMap<value, frequence>
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> map = new HashMap<> ();
        for(int i : nums){
            map.put(i, map.getOrDefault(i, 0) + 1);
        }
        
        //init heap's the less frequent element first.    
        PriorityQueue<Integer> heap = new PriorityQueue<> ((n1, n2) -> map.get(n1) - map.get(n2));
        //comparator written in lambda expression, which specifies how the pq should compare it's elements. 
        //In this case, the expression means the pq should give priority to the number whose count is greater.
        //So, bigger value in the bottom, smaller element on the top
        
        //keep k top frequent elements in the heap
        for(int n : map.keySet()){
            heap.add(n);
            if(heap.size() > k){
                heap.poll(); //get rid of the smaller ones from the head of the heap, and delete
            }
        }
        
        //build output list
        while(!heap.isEmpty()){
            result.add(heap.poll());
        }
        Collections.reverse(result);
        
        return result;
    }



### Code in Python.   



